Sitting alone at night in secret study;
it is placed on the brass tripod.
A slight flame comes out of the emptiness and
makes successful that which should not be believed in vain.
The wand in the hand is placed in the middle of the tripod's legs.
With water he sprinkles both the hem of his garment and his foot.
A voice, fear: he trembles in his robes.
Divine splendor; the God sits nearby.
When the litters are overturned by the whirlwind 
and faces are covered by cloaks,
the new republic will be troubled by its people.
At this time the reds and the whites will rule wrongly.
In the world there will be made a king
who will have little peace and a short life.
At this time the ship of the Papacy will be lost,
governed to its greatest detriment.
They will be driven away for a long drawn out fight.
The countryside will be most grievously troubled.
Town and country will have greater struggle.
Carcassonne and Narbonne will have their hearts tried.
The eye of Ravenna will be forsaken,
when his wings will fail at his feet.
The two of Bresse will have made a constitution
for Turin and Vercelli, which the French will trample underfoot
Arrived too late, the act has been done.
The wind was against them, letters intercepted on their way.
The conspirators were fourteen of a party.
By Rousseau shall these enterprises be undertaken.
How often will you be captured, O city of the sun ?
Changing laws that are barbaric and vain.
Bad times approach you. No longer will you be enslaved.
Great Hadrie will revive your veins.
From the Orient will come the African heart
to trouble Hadrie and the heirs of Romulus.
Accompanied by the Libyan fleet 
the temples of Malta and nearby islands shall be deserted.
A coffin is put into the vault of iron,
where seven children of the king are held.
The ancestors and forebears will come forth from the depths of hell,
lamenting to see thus dead the fruit of their line.
The motion of senses, heart, feet and hands
will be in agreement between Naples, Lyon and Sicily.
Swords fire, floods, then the noble Romans drowned,
killed or dead because of a weak brain.
There will soon be talk of a treacherous man, who rules a short time, 
quickly raised from low to high estate.
He will suddenly turn disloyal and volatile.
This man will govern Verona.
Through anger and internal hatreds, the exiles 
will hatch a great plot against the king.
Secretly they will place enemies as a threat,
and his own old adherents will find sedition against them.
From the enslaved populace, songs, chants and demands,
while Princes and Lords are held captive in prisons.
These will in the future by headless idiots
be received as divine prayers
.Mars threatens us with the force of war
and will cause blood to be spilt seventy times.
The clergy will be both exalted and reviled moreover,
by those who wish to learn nothing of them.
A scythe joined with a pond in Sagittarius
at its highest ascendant.
Plague, famine, death from military hands;
the century approaches its renewal.
For forty years the rainbow will not be seen.
For forty years it will be seen every day.
The dry earth will grow more parched,
and there will be great floods when it is seen.
Because of French discord and negligence
an opening shall be given to the Mohammedans.
The land and sea of Siena will be soaked in blood,
and the port of Marseilles covered with ships and sails.
When the snakes surround the altar,
and the Trojan blood is troubled by the Spanish.
Because of them, a great number will be lessened.
The leader flees, hidden in the swampy marshes.
The cities of Tours, Orleans, Blois, Angers, Reims and Nantes
are troubled by sudden change.
Tents will be pitched by people of foreign tongues;
rivers, darts at Rennes, shaking of land and sea.
The rock holds in its depths white clay
which will come out milk-white from a cleft
Needlessly troubled people will not dare touch it,
unaware that the foundation of the earth is of clay.
A thing existing without any senses
will cause its own end to happen through artifice.
At Autun, Chalan, Langres and the two Sens
there will be great damage from hail and ice.
In the third month, at sunrise,
the Boar and the Leopard meet on the battlefield.
The fatigued Leopard looks up to heaven
and sees an eagle playing around the sun.
At the New City he is thoughtful to condemn;
the bird of prey offers himself to the Gods.
After victory he pardons his captives.
At Cremona and Mantua great hardships will be suffered.
The lost thing is discovered, hidden for many centuries.
Pasteur will be celebrated almost as a God-like figure.
This is when the moon completes her great cycle,
but by other rumors he shall be dishonored.
The great man will be struck down in the day by a thunderbolt.
An evil deed, foretold by the bearer of a petition.
According to the prediction another falls at night time.
Conflict at Reims, London, and pestilence in Tuscany.
Beneath the oak tree of Gienne, struck by lightning, 
the treasure is hidden not far from there.
That which for many centuries had been gathered,
when found, a man will die, his eye pierced by a spring.
Tobruk will fear the barbarian fleet for a time,
then much later the Western fleet.
Cattle, people, possessions, all will be quite lost.
What a deadly combat in Taurus and Libra.
When the fish that travels over both land and sea
is cast up on to the shore by a great wave,
its shape foreign, smooth and frightful.
From the sea the enemies soon reach the walls.
Because of the storm at sea the foreign ship
will approach an unknown port.
Notwithstanding the signs of the palm branches,
afterwards there is death and pillage. Good advice comes too late.
The wars in France will last for so many years
beyond the reign of the Castulon kings.
An uncertain victory will crown three great ones,
the Eagle, the Cock, the Moon, the Lion, the Sun in its house.
The great Empire will soon be exchanged 
for a small place, which soon will begin to grow.
A small place of tiny area 
in the middle of which he will come to lay down his scepter.
Near a great bridge near a spacious plain
the great lion with the Imperial forces
will cause a falling outside the austere city.
Through fear the gates will be unlocked for him.
The bird of prey flying to the left,
before battle is joined with the French, he makes preparations.
Some will regard him as good, others bad or uncertain.
The weaker party will regard him as a good omen.
The young lion will overcome the older one,
in a field of combat in single fight:
He will pierce his eyes in their golden cage;
two wounds in one, then he dies a cruel death.
Too late the king will repent 
that he did not put his adversary to death.
But he will soon come to agree to far greater things
which will cause all his line to die.
Shortly before sun set, battle is engaged.
A great nation is uncertain.
Overcome, the sea port makes no answer,
the bridge and the grave both in foreign places.
The Sun and the Eagle will appear to the victor.
An empty answer assured to the defeated.
Neither bugle nor shouts will stop the soldiers.
Liberty and peace, if achieved in time through death.
At night the last one will be strangled in his bed 
because he became too involved with the blond heir elect.
The Empire is enslaved and three men substituted.
He is put to death with neither letter nor packet read.
The false trumpet concealing madness
will cause Byzantium to change its laws.
From Egypt there will go forth a man who wants
the edict withdrawn, changing money and standards.
The city is besieged and assaulted by night;
few have escaped; a battle not far from the sea.
A woman faints with joy at the return of her son,
poison in the folds of the hidden letters.
The tenth day of the April Calends, calculated in Gothic fashion
is revived again by wicked people.
The fire is put out and the diabolic gathering
seek the bones of the demon of Psellus.
Before the Empire changes
a very wonderful event will take place.
The field moved, the pillar of porphyry 
put in place, changed on the gnarled rock.
In a short time sacrifices will be resumed,
those opposed will be put to death like martyrs.
The will no longer be monks, abbots or novices.
Honey shall be far more expensive than wax.
A founder of sects, much trouble for the accuser:
A beast in the theater prepares the scene and plot.
The author ennobled by acts of older times;
the world is confused by schismatic sects.
Very near Auch, Lectoure and Mirande
a great fire will fall from the sky for three nights.
The cause will appear both stupefying and marvelous;
shortly afterwards there will be an earthquake.
The speeches of Lake Leman will become angered,
the days will drag out into weeks,
then months, then years, then all will fail.
The authorities will condemn their useless powers.
When twenty years of the Moon's reign have passed
another will take up his reign for seven thousand years.
When the exhausted Sun takes up his cycle
then my prophecy and threats will be accomplished.
Long before these happenings
the people of the East, influenced by the Moon,
in the year  will cause many to be carried away,
and will almost subdue the Northern area.
From the three water signs will be born a man
who will celebrate Thursday as his holiday.
His renown, praise, rule and power will grow 
on land and sea, bringing trouble to the East.
The head of Aries, Jupiter and Saturn.
Eternal God, what changes !
Then the bad times will return again after a long century;
what turmoil in France and Italy.
Two evil influences in conjunction in Scorpio.
The great lord is murdered in his room.
A newly appointed king persecutes the Church,
the lower parts of Europe and in the North.
Alas, how we will see a great nation sorely troubled
and the holy law in utter ruin.
Christianity governed throughout by other laws,
when a new source of gold and silver is discovered.
Two revolutions will be caused by the evil scythe bearer
making a change of reign and centuries.
The mobile sign thus moves into its house:
Equal in favor to both sides.
In the land with a climate opposite to Babylon
there will be great shedding of blood.
Heaven will seem unjust both on land and sea and in the air.
Sects, famine, kingdoms, plagues, confusion.
Sooner and later you will see great changes made,
dreadful horrors and vengeances.
For as the moon is thus led by its angel
the heavens draw near to the Balance.
The trumpet shakes with great discord.
An agreement broken: lifting the face to heaven:
the bloody mouth will swim with blood;
the face anointed with milk and honey lies on the ground.
Through a slit in the belly a creature will be born with two heads
and four arms: it will survive for some few years.
The day that Alquiloie celebrates his festivals
Fossana, Turin and the ruler of Ferrara will follow.
The exiles deported to the islands
at the advent of an even more cruel king
will be murdered. Two will be burnt 
who were not sparing in their speech.
An Emperor will be born near Italy,
who will cost the Empire very dearly.
They will say, when they see his allies,
that he is less a prince than a butcher.
The wretched, unfortunate republic 
will again be ruined by a new authority.
The great amount of ill will accumulated in exile
will make the Swiss break their important agreement.
Alas! what a great loss there will be to learning
before the cycle of the Moon is completed.
Fire, great floods, by more ignorant rulers;
how long the centuries until it is seen to be restored.
Pestilences extinguished, the world becomes smaller,
for a long time the lands will be inhabited peacefully.
People will travel safely through the sky over land and seas:
then wars will start up again.
At night they will think they have seen the sun,
when the see the half pig man:
Noise, screams, battles seen fought in the skies.
The brute beasts will be heard to speak.
A child without hands, never so great a thunderbolt seen,
the royal child wounded at a game of tennis.
At the well lightning strikes, joining together 
three trussed up in the middle under the oaks.
He who then carries the news,
after a short while will stop to breathe:
Viviers, Tournon, Montferrand and Praddelles;
hail and storms will make them grieve.
The great famine which I sense approaching
will often turn in various areas then become worldwide.
It will be so vast and long lasting that they will grab
roots from the trees and children from the breast.
O to what a dreadful and wretched torment
are three innocent people going to be delivered.
Poison suggested, badly guarded, betrayal.
Delivered up to horror by drunken executioners.
The great mountain, seven stadia round,
after peace, war, famine, flooding.
It will spread far, drowning great countries,
even antiquities and their mighty foundations.
Rain, famine and war will not cease in Persia;
too great a faith will betray the monarch.
Those actions started in France will end there,
a secret sign for on to be sparing.
The marine tower will be captured and retaken three times
by Spaniards, Barbarians and Ligurians.
Marseilles and Aix, Ales by men of Pisa,
devastation, fire, sword, pillage at Avignon by the Turinese.
The inhabitants of Marseilles completely changed,
fleeing and pursued as far as Lyons.
Narbonne, Toulouse angered by Bordeaux;
the killed and captive are almost one million.
France shall be accused of neglect by her five partners.
Tunis, Algiers stirred up by the Persians.
Leon, Seville and Barcelona having failed,
they will not have the fleet because of the Venetians.
After a rest they will travel to Epirus,
great help coming from around Antioch.
The curly haired king will strive greatly for the Empire,
the brazen beard will be roasted on a spit.
The tyrant of Siena will occupy Savona,
having won the fort he will restrain the marine fleet.
Two armies under the standard of Ancona:
the leader will examine them in fear.
The man will be called by a barbaric name
that three sisters will receive from destiny.
He will speak then to a great people in words and deeds,
more than any other man will have fame and renown.
A promontory stands between two seas:
A man who will die later by the bit of a horse;
Neptune unfurls a black sail for his man;
the fleet near Gibraltar and Rocheval.
To an old leader will be born an idiot heir,
weak both in knowledge and in war.
The leader of France is feared by his sister,
battlefields divided, conceded to the soldiers.
Bazas, Lectoure, Condom, Auch and Agen
are troubled by laws, disputes and monopolies.
Carcassone, Bordeaux, Toulouse and Bayonne will be ruined
when they wish to renew the massacre.
From the sixth bright celestial light 
it will come to thunder very strongly in Burgundy.
Then a monster will be born of a very hideous beast:
In March, April, May and June great wounding and worrying.
Nine will be set apart from the human flock,
separated from judgment and advise.
Their fate is to be divided as they depart.
K. Th. L. dead, banished and scattered.
When the great wooden columns tremble 
in the south wind, covered with blood.
Such a great assembly then pours forth
that Vienna and the land of Austria will tremble.
The alien nation will divide the spoils.
Saturn in dreadful aspect in Mars.
Dreadful and foreign to the Tuscans and Latins,
Greeks who will wish to strike.
The moon is obscured in deep gloom,
his brother becomes bright red in color.
The great one hidden for a long time in the shadows
will hold the blade in the bloody wound.
The king is troubled by the queen's reply.
Ambassadors will fear for their lives.
The greater of his brothers will doubly disguise his action,
two of them will die through anger, hatred and envy.
When the great queen sees herself conquered,
she will show an excess of masculine courage.
Naked, on horseback, she will pass over the river
pursued by the sword: she will have outraged her faith
Earthshaking fire from the center of the earth
will cause tremors around the New City.
Two great rocks will war for a long time,
then Arethusa will redden a new river.
The divine wrath overtakes the great Prince,
a short while before he will marry.
Both supporters and credit will suddenly diminish.
Counsel, he will die because of the shaven heads.
Those of Lerida will be in the Moselle,
kill all those from the Loire and Seine.
The seaside track will come near the high valley,
when the Spanish open every route.
Bordeaux and Poitiers at the sound of the bell
will go with a great fleet as fast as Langon.
A great rage will surge up against the French,
when a hideous monster is born near Orgon.
The Gods will make it appear to mankind
that they are the authors of a great war.
Before the sky was seen to bee free of weapons and rockets:
the greatest damage will be inflicted on the left.
Under one man peace will be proclaimed everywhere,
but not long after will be looting and rebellion.
Because of a refusal, town, land and see will be broached.
About a third of a million dead or captured.
The Italian lands near the mountains will tremble.
The Cock and the Lion not strongly united.
In place of fear they will help each other.
Freedom alone moderates the French.
The tyrant Selim will be put to death at the harbor
but Liberty will not be regained, however.
A new war arises from vengeance and remorse.
A lady is honored through force of terror.
In front of a monastery will be found a twin infant
from the illustrious and ancient line of a monk.
His fame, renown and power through sects and speech
is such that they will say the living twin is deservedly chosen.
A man will be charged with the destruction 
of temples and sects, altered by fantasy.
He will harm the rocks rather than the living,
ears filled with ornate speeches.
That which neither weapon nor flame could accomplish
will be achieved by a sweet speaking tongue in council.
Sleeping, in a dream, the king will see
the enemy not in war or of military blood.
The leader who will conduct great numbers of people
far from their skies, to foreign customs and language.
Five thousand will die in Crete and Thessaly,
the leader fleeing in a sea going supply ship.
The great king will join 
with two kings, united in friendship.
How the great household will sigh:
around Narbon what pity for the children.
For a long time a gray bird will be seen in the sky
near Dôle and the lands of Tuscany.
He holds a flowering branch in his beak,
but he dies too soon and the war ends.
Towards Aquitaine by the British Isles
By these themselves great incursions.
Rains, frosts will make the soil uneven,
Port Selyn will make mighty invasions
The blue head will inflict upon the white head
As much evil as France has done them good:
Dead at the sail-yard the great one hung on the branch.
When seized by his own the King will say how much.
Because of the solar heat on the sea
From Negrepont the fishes half cooked:
The inhabitants will come to cut them,
When food will fail in Rhodes and Genoa.
From Monaco to near Sicily
The entire coast will remain desolated:
There will remain there no suburb, city or town
Not pillaged and robbed by the Barbarians.
That which is enclosed in iron and letter in a fish,
Out will go one who will then make war,
He will have his fleet well rowed by sea,
Appearing near Latin land.
Near the gates and within two cities
There will be two scourges the like of which was never seen,
Famine within plague, people put out by steel,
Crying to the great immortal God for relief.
Amongst several transported to the isles,
One to be born with two teeth in his mouth
They will die of famine the trees stripped,
For them a new King issues a new edict.
Temples consecrated in the original Roman manner,
They will reject the excess foundations,
Taking their first and humane laws,
Chasing, though not entirely, the cult of saints.
Nine years the lean one will hold the realm in peace,
Then he will fall into a very bloody thirst:
Because of him a great people will die without faith and law
Killed by one far more good-natured.
Before long all will be set in order,
We will expect a very sinister century,
The state of the masked and solitary ones much changed,
Few will be found who want to be in their place.
The nearest son of the elder will attain
Very great height as far as the realm of the privileged:
Everyone will fear his fierce glory,
But his children will be thrown out of the realm.
Eyes closed, opened by antique fantasy,
The garb of the monks they will be put to naught:
The great monarch will chastise their frenzy,
Ravishing the treasure in front of the temples.
The body without soul no longer to be sacrificed:
Day of death put for birthday:
The divine spirit will make the soul happy,
Seeing the word in its eternity.
At Tours, Gien, guarded, eyes will be searching,
Discovering from afar her serene Highness:
She and her suite will enter the port,
Combat, thrust, sovereign power.
Shortly before the monarch is assassinated,
Castor and Pollux in the ship, bearded star:
The public treasure emptied by land and sea,
Pisa, Asti, Ferrara, Turin land under interdict.
Naples, Palermo, Sicily, Syracuse,
New tyrants, celestial lightning fires:
Force from London, Ghent, Brussels and Susa,
Great slaughter, triumph leads to festivities.
The field of the temple of the vestal virgin,
Not far from Elne and the Pyrenees mountains:
The great tube is hidden in the trunk.
To the north rivers overflown and vines battered.
New, impetuous and sudden rain
Will suddenly halt two armies.
Celestial stone, fires make the sea stony,
The death of seven by land and sea sudden.
Newcomers, place built without defense,
Place occupied then uninhabitable:
Meadows, houses, fields, towns to take at pleasure,
Famine, plague, war, extensive land arable.
Brothers and sisters captive in diverse places
Will find themselves passing near the monarch:
Contemplating them his branches attentive,
Displeasing to see the marks on chin, forehead and nose.
The ambassador sent by biremes,
Halfway repelled by unknown ones:
Reinforced with salt four triremes will come,
In Euboea bound with ropes and chains.
The imprudent army of Europe will depart,
Collecting itself near the submerged isle:
The weak fleet will bend the phalanx,
At the navel of the world a greater voice substituted.
Palace birds, chased out by a bird,
Very soon after the prince has arrived:
Although the enemy is repelled beyond the river,
Outside seized the trick upheld by the bird.
Beasts ferocious from hunger will swim across rivers:
The greater part of the region will be against the Hister, 
The great one will cause it to be dragged in an iron cage,
When the German child will observe nothing.
The foreign guard will betray the fortress,
Hope and shadow of a higher marriage:
Guard deceived, fort seized in the press,
Loire, Saone, Rhone, Garonne, mortal outrage.
Because of the favor that the city will show
To the great one who will soon lose the field of battle,
Fleeing the Po position, the Ticino will overflow
With blood, fires, deaths, drowned by the long-edged blow.
The divine word will be struck from the sky,
One who cannot proceed any further:
The secret closed up with the revelation, 
Such that they will march over and ahead.
The penultimate of the surname of the Prophet
Will take Diana [Thursday] for his day and rest:
He will wander far because of a frantic head,
And delivering a great people from subjection.
The Easterner will leave his seat,
To pass the Apennine mountains to see Gaul:
He will transpire the sky, the waters and the snow,
And everyone will be struck with his rod.
One who the infernal gods of Hannibal
Will cause to be reborn, terror of mankind
Never more horror nor worse of days
In the past than will come to the Romans through Babel.
In Campania the Capuan [river] will do so much
That one will see only fields covered by waters:
Before and after the long rain
One will see nothing green except the trees.
Milk, frog's blood prepared in Dalmatia.
Conflict given, plague near Treglia:
A great cry will sound through all Slavonia,
Then a monster will be born near and within Ravenna.
Through the torrent which descends from Verona
Its entry will then be guided to the Po,
A great wreck, and no less in the Garonne,
When those of Genoa march against their country.
The senseless ire of the furious combat
Will cause steel to be flashed at the table by brothers:
To part them death, wound, and curiously,
The proud duel will come to harm France.
The fire by night will take hold in two lodgings,
Several within suffocated and roasted.
It will happen near two rivers as one:
Sun, Sagittarius and Capricorn all will be reduced.
The letters of the great Prophet will be seized,
They will come to fall into the hands of the tyrant:
His enterprise will be to deceive his King,
But his extortions will very soon trouble him.
Of that great number that one will send
To relieve those besieged in the fort,
Plague and famine will devour them all,
Except seventy who will be destroyed.
A great number will be condemned
When the monarchs will be reconciled:
But for one of them such a bad impediment will arise
That they will be joined together but loosely.
.
One year before the Italian conflict,
Germans, Gauls, Spaniards for the fort:
The republican schoolhouse will fall,
There, except for a few, they will be choked dead.
Shortly afterwards, without a very long interval,
By sea and land a great uproar will be raised:
Naval battle will be very much greater,
Fires, animals, those who will cause greater insult.
The great star will burn for seven days,
The cloud will cause two suns to appear:
The big mastiff will howl all night
When the great pontiff will change country.
Cock, dogs and cats will be satiated with blood
And from the wound of the tyrant found dead,
At the bed of another legs and arms broken,
He who was not afraid to die a cruel death.
During the appearance of the bearded star.
The three great princes will be made enemies:
Struck from the sky, peace earth quaking,
Po, Tiber overflowing, serpent placed upon the shore.
The Eagle driven back around the tents
Will be chased from there by other birds:
When the noise of cymbals, trumpets and bells
Will restore the senses of the senseless lady.
.
Too much the heavens weep for the Androgyne begotten,
Near the heavens human blood shed:
Because of death too late a great people re-created,
Late and soon the awaited relief comes.
After great trouble for humanity, a greater one is prepared
The Great Mover renews the ages:
Rain, blood, milk, famine, steel and plague,
Is the heavens fire seen, a long spark running.
The great old enemy mourning dies of poison,
The sovereigns subjugated in infinite numbers:
Stones raining, hidden under the fleece,
Through death articles are cited in vain.
The great force which will pass the mountains.
Saturn in Sagittarius Mars turning from the fish:
Poison hidden under the heads of salmon,
Their war-chief hung with cord.
The advisers of the first monopoly,
The conquerors seduced for Malta:
Rhodes, Byzantium for them exposing their pole:
Land will fail the pursuers in flight.
When those of Hainault, of Ghent and of Brussels
Will see the siege laid before Langres:
Behind their flanks there will be cruel wars,
The ancient wound will do worse than enemies.
The blood of the just will commit a fault at London,
Burnt through lightning of twenty threes the six:
The ancient lady will fall from her high place,
Several of the same sect will be killed.
For several nights the earth will tremble:
In the spring two efforts in succession:
Corinth, Ephesus will swim in the two seas:
War stirred up by two valiant in combat.
The great plague of the maritime city
Will not cease until there be avenged the death
Of the just blood, condemned for a price without crime,
Of the great lady outraged by pretense.
.
Because of people strange, and distant from the Romans
Their great city much troubled after water:
Daughter handless, domain too different,
Chief taken, lock not having been picked.
In the conflict the great one who was worth little
At his end will perform a marvelous deed:
While Adria will see what he was lacking,
During the banquet the proud one stabbed.
One whom neither plague nor steel knew how to finish,
Death on the summit of the hills struck from the sky:
The abbot will die when he will see ruined
Those of the wreck wishing to seize the rock.
Before the conflict the great wall will fall,
The great one to death, death too sudden and lamented,
Born imperfect: the greater part will swim:
Near the river the land stained with blood.
With neither foot nor hand because of sharp and strong tooth
Through the crowd to the fort of the pork and the elder born:
Near the portal treacherous proceeds,
Moon shining, little great one led off.
Gallic fleet through support of the great guard
Of the great Neptune, and his trident soldiers,
Provence reddened to sustain a great band:
More at Narbonne, because of javelins and darts.
The Punic faith broken in the East,
Ganges, Jordan, and Rhone, Loire, and Tagus will change:
When the hunger of the mule will be satiated,
Fleet sprinkles, blood and bodies will swim.
Bravo, ye of Tamins, Gironde and La Rochelle:
O Trojan blood! Mars at the port of the arrow
Behind the river the ladder put to the fort,
Points to fire great murder on the breach.
Mabus then will soon die, there will come
Of people and beasts a horrible rout:
Then suddenly one will see vengeance,
Hundred, hand, thirst, hunger when the comet will run.
The Gauls Ausonia will subjugate very little,
Po, Marne and Seine Parma will make drunk:
He who will prepare the great wall against them,
He will lose his life from the least at the wall.
The people of Geneva drying up with hunger, with thirst,
Hope at hand will come to fail:
On the point of trembling will be the law of him of the Cevennes,
Fleet at the great port cannot be received.
The sloping park great calamity
To be done through Hesperia and Insubria:
The fire in the ship, plague and captivity, 
Mercury in Sagittarius Saturn will fade.
Through great dangers the captive escaped:
In a short time great his fortune changed.
In the palace the people are trapped,
Through good omen the city besieged.
The blond one will come to compromise the fork-nosed one
Through the duel and will chase him out:
The exiles within he will have restored,
Committing the strongest to the marine places.
The efforts of Aquilon will be great:
The gate on the Ocean will be opened,
The kingdom on the Isle will be restored:
London will tremble discovered by sail.
The Gallic King through his Celtic right arm
Seeing the discord of the great Monarchy:
He will cause his scepter to flourish over the three parts,
Against the cope of the great Hierarchy.
The dart from the sky will make its extension,
Deaths speaking: great execution.
The stone in the tree, the proud nation restored,
Noise, human monster, purge expiation.
The exiles will come into Sicily
To deliver form hunger the strange nation:
At daybreak the Celts will fail them:
Life remains by reason: the King joins.
Celtic army vexed in Italy 
On all sides conflict and great loss:
Romans fled, O Gaul repelled!
Near the Ticino, Rubicon uncertain battle.
The shore of Lake Garda to Lake Fucino,
Taken from the Lake of Geneva to the port of L'Orguion:
Born with three arms the predicted warlike image, 
Through three crowns to the great Endymion.
From Sens, from Autun they will come as far as the Rhone
To pass beyond towards the Pyrenees mountains:
The nation to leave the March of Ancona:
By land and sea it will be followed by great suites.
The voice of the rare bird heard,
On the pipe of the air-vent floor:
So high will the bushel of wheat rise,
That man will be eating his fellow man.
.
Lightning in Burgundy will perform a portentous deed,
One which could never have been done by skill,
Sexton made lame by their senate
Will make the affair known to the enemies.
Hurled back through bows, fires, pitch and by fires:
Cries, howls heard at midnight:
Within they are place on the broken ramparts,
The traitors fled by the underground passages.
.
The great Neptune of the deep of the sea 
With Punic race and Gallic blood mixed.
The Isles bled, because of the tardy rowing:
More harm will it do him than the ill-concealed secret.
The beard frizzled and black through skill
Will subjugate the cruel and proud people:
The great Chyren will remove from far away
All those captured by the banner of Selin
After the conflict by the eloquence of the wounded one
For a short time a soft rest is contrived:
The great ones are not to be allowed deliverance at all:
They are restored by the enemies at the proper time.
Through fire from the sky the city almost burned:
The Urn threatens Deucalion again:
Sardinia vexed by the Punic foist,
After Libra will leave her Phaethon.
Through hunger the prey will make the wolf prisoner,
The aggressor then in extreme distress.
The heir having the last one before him,
The great one does not escape in the middle of the crowd.
The large trade of a great Lyons changed,
The greater part turns to pristine ruin
Prey to the soldiers swept away by pillage:
Through the Jura mountain and Suevia drizzle.
Between Campania, Siena, Florence, Tuscany,
Six months nine days without a drop of rain:
The strange tongue in the Dalmatian land,
It will overrun, devastating the entire land.
The old full beard under the severe statute
Made at Lyon over the Celtic Eagle:
The little great one perseveres too far:
Noise of arms in the sky: Ligurian sea red.
Wreck for the fleet near the Adriatic Sea:
The land trembles stirred up upon the air placed on land:
Egypt trembles Mahometan increase, 
The Herald surrendering himself is appointed to cry out.
After there will come from the outermost countries
A German Prince, upon the golden throne:
The servitude and waters met,
The lady serves, her time no longer adored.
The circuit of the great ruinous deed,
The seventh name of the fifth will be:
Of a third greater the stranger warlike:
Sheep, Paris, Aix will not guarantee.
One day the two great masters will be friends,
Their great power will be seen increased:
The new land will be at its high peak,
To the bloody one the number recounted.
Though life and death the realm of Hungary changed:
The law will be more harsh than service:
Their great city cries out with howls and laments,
Castor and Pollux enemies in the arena.
.
At sunrise one will see a great fire,
Noise and light extending towards Aquilon:
Within the circle death and one will hear cries,
Through steel, fire, famine, death awaiting them.
Fire color of gold from the sky seen on earth:
Heir struck from on high, marvelous deed done:
Great human murder: the nephew of the great one taken,
Deaths spectacular the proud one escaped.
Very near the Tiber presses Death:
Shortly before great inundation:
The chief of the ship taken, thrown into the bilge:
Castle, palace in conflagration.
Great Po, great evil will be received through Gauls,
Vain terror to the maritime Lion:
People will pass by the sea in infinite numbers,
Without a quarter of a million escaping.
The populous places will be uninhabitable:
Great discord to obtain fields:
Realms delivered to prudent incapable ones:
Then for the great brothers dissension and death.
Burning torch will be seen in the sky at night
Near the end and beginning of the Rhone:
Famine, steel: the relief provided late,
Persia turns to invade Macedonia.
Roman Pontiff beware of approaching
The city that two rivers flow through,
Near there your blood will come to spurt, 
You and yours when the rose will flourish.
The one whose face is splattered with the blood
Of the victim nearly sacrificed:
Jupiter in Leon, omen through presage:
To be put to death then for the bride.
Roman land as the omen interpreted
Will be vexed too much by the Gallic people:
But the Celtic nation will fear the hour,
The fleet has been pushed too far by the north wind.
Within the isles a very horrible uproar,
One will hear only a party of war,
So great will be the insult of the plunderers
That they will come to be joined in the great league.
After combat and naval battle,
The great Neptune in his highest belfry:
Red adversary will become pale with fear,
Putting the great Ocean in dread.
The divine word will give to the sustenance,
Including heaven, earth, gold hidden in the mystic milk:
Body, soul, spirit having all power,
As much under its feet as the Heavenly see.
Mars and Mercury, and the silver joined together,
Towards the south extreme drought:
In the depths of Asia one will say the earth trembles,
Corinth, Ephesus then in perplexity.
When they will be close the lunar ones will fail,
From one another not greatly distant,
Cold, dryness, danger towards the frontiers, 
Even where the oracle has had its beginning.
Near, far the failure of the two great luminaries
Which will occur between April and March.
Oh, what a loss! but two great good-natured ones
By land and sea will relieve all parts.
Within the closed temple the lightning will enter,
The citizens within their fort injured:
Horses, cattle, men, the wave will touch the wall,
Through famine, drought, under the weakest armed.
The fugitives, fire from the sky on the pikes:
Conflict near the ravens frolicking,
From land they cry for aid and heavenly relief,
When the combatants will be near the walls.
The Cimbri joined with their neighbors
Will come to ravage almost Spain:
Peoples gathered in Guienne and Limousin
Will be in league, and will bear them company.
Bordeaux, Rouen and La Rochelle joined
Will hold around the great Ocean sea,
English, Bretons and the Flemings allied
Will chase them as far as Roanne.
Greater calamity of blood and famine,
Seven times it approaches the marine shore:
Monaco from hunger, place captured, captivity,
The great one led crunching in a metaled cage.
The arms to fight in the sky a long time,
The tree in the middle of the city fallen:
Sacred bough clipped, steel, in the face of the firebrand,
Then the monarch of Adria fallen.
Because of the swelling of the Ebro, Po, Tagus, Tiber and Rhône
And because of the pond of Geneva and Arezzo,
The two great chiefs and cities of the Garonne,
Taken, dead, drowned: human booty divided.
.
Through lightning in the arch gold and silver melted,
Of two captives one will eat the other:
The greatest one of the city stretched out,
When submerged the fleet will swim.
Through the branch of the valiant personage
Of lowest France: because of the unhappy father
Honors, riches, travail in his old age,
For having believed the advice of a simple man.
The realm, will change in heart, vigor and glory,
In all points having its adversary opposed:
Then through death France an infancy will subjugate,
A great Regent will then be more contrary.
An English prince Marc in his heavenly heart
Will want to pursue his prosperous fortune,
Of the two duels one will pierce his gall:
Hated by him well loved by his mother.
Mount Aventine will be seen to burn at night:
The sky very suddenly dark in Flanders:
When the monarch will chase his nephew,
Then Church people will commit scandals.
After the rather long rain milk,
In several places in Reims the sky touched:
Alas, what a bloody murder is prepared near them,
Fathers and sons Kings will not dare approach.
In Lucca it will come to rain blood and milk,
Shortly before a change of praetor:
Great plague and war, famine and drought will be made visible
Far away where their prince and rector will die.
Through the regions of the great river Guadalquivir
Deep in Iberia to the Kingdom of Grenada
Crosses beaten back by the Mahometan peoples
One of Cordova will betray his country
In the Conca by the Adriatic Sea
There will appear a horrible fish,
With face human and its end aquatic,
Which will be taken without the hook.
Six days the attack made before the city:
Battle will be given strong and harsh:
Three will surrender it, and to them pardon:
The rest to fire and to bloody slicing and cutting.
If, France, you pass beyond the Ligurian Sea,
You will see yourself shut up in islands and seas:
Mahomet contrary, more so the Adriatic Sea:
You will gnaw the bones of horses and asses.
Great confusion in the enterprise,
Loss of people, countless treasure:
You ought not to extend further there.
France, let what I say be remembered.
He who will attain to the kingdom of Navarre
When Sicily and Naples will be joined:
He will hold Bigorre and Landes through Foix and Oloron
From one who will be too closely allied with Spain.
They will prepare idols of Kings and Princes,
Soothsayers and empty prophets elevated:
Horn, victim of gold, and azure, dazzling,
The soothsayers will be interpreted.
Libyan Prince powerful in the West
Will come to inflame very much French with Arabian.
Learned in letters condescending he will
Translate the Arabian language into French.
Of land weak and parentage poor,
Through piece and peace he will attain to the empire.
For a long time a young female to reign,
Never has one so bad come upon the kingdom.
The two nephews brought up in diverse places:
Naval battle, land, fathers fallen:
They will come to be elevated very high in making war
To avenge the injury, enemies succumbed.
He who during the struggle with steel in the deed of war
Will have carried off the prize from on greater than he:
By night six will carry the grudge to his bed,
Without armor he will surprised suddenly.
On the field of Media, of Arabia and of Armenia
Two great armies will assemble thrice:
The host near the bank of the Araxes,
They will fall in the land of the great Suleiman.
The great tomb of the people of Aquitaine 
Will approach near to Tuscany,
When Mars will be in the corner of Germany
And in the land of the Mantuan people.
In the city where the wolf will enter,
Very near there will the enemies be:
Foreign army will spoil a great country.
The friends will pass at the wall and Alps.
When the eclipse of the Sun will then be,
The monster will be seen in full day:
Quite otherwise will one interpret it,
High price unguarded: none will have foreseen it.
From the very depths of the West of Europe,
A young child will be born of poor people,
He who by his tongue will seduce a great troop:
His fame will increase towards the realm of the East.
Buried apoplectic not dead,
He will be found to have his hands eaten:
When the city will condemn the heretic,
He who it seemed to them had changed their laws.
The speech delivered before the attack,
Milan taken by the Eagle through deceptive ambushes:
Ancient wall driven in by cannons,
Through fire and blood few given quarter.
The Gallic people and a foreign nation
Beyond the mountains, dead, captured and killed:
In the contrary month and near vintage time,
Through the Lords drawn up in accord.
The seven in three months in agreement
To subjugate the Apennine Alps:
But the tempest and cowardly Ligurian,
Destroys them in sudden ruins.
The great theater will come to be set up again:
The dice cast and the snares already laid.
Too much the first one will come to tire in the death knell,
Prostrated by arches already a long time split.
Hunchback will be elected by the council,
A more hideous monster not seen on earth,
The willing blow will put out his eye:
The traitor to the King received as faithful.
The child will be born with two teeth in his mouth,
Stones will fall during the rain in Tuscany:
A few years after there will be neither wheat nor barley,
To satiate those who will faint from hunger.
People from around the Tarn, Lot and Garonne
Beware of passing the Apennine mountains:
Your tomb near Rome and Ancona,
The black frizzled beard will have a trophy set up.
When the animal domesticated by man
After great pains and leaps will come to speak:
The lightning to the virgin will be very harmful,
Taken from earth and suspended in the air.
The five strangers entered in the temple,
Their blood will come to pollute the land:
To the Toulousans it will be a very hard example
Of one who will come to exterminate their laws.
The sky  of Plancus' city  forebodes to us
Through clear signs and fixed stars,
That the time of its sudden change is approaching,
Neither for its good, nor for its evils.
The old monarch chased out of his realm
Will go to the East asking for its help:
For fear of the crosses he will fold his banner:
To Mitylene he will go through port and by land.
Seven hundred captives bound roughly.
Lots drawn for the half to be murdered:
The hope at hand will come very promptly
But not as soon as the fifteenth death.
Gallic realm, you will be much changed:
To a foreign place is the empire transferred:
You will be set up amidst other customs and laws:
Rouen and Chartres will do much of the worst to you.
The republic of the great city
Will not want to consent to the great severity:
King summoned by trumpet to go out,
The ladder at the wall, the city will repent.
Paris conspires to commit a great murder
Blois will cause it to be fully carried out:
Those of Orléans will want to replace their chief,
Angers, Troyes, Langres will commit a misdeed against them.
In Campania there will be a very long rain,
In Apulia very great drought.
The Cock will see the Eagle, its wing poorly finished,
By the Lion will it be put into extremity.
When the greatest one will carry off the prize
Of Nuremberg, of Augsburg, and those of Bâle
Through Cologne the chief Frankfort retaken
They will cross through Flanders right into Gaul.
One of the greatest ones will flee to Spain
Which will thereafter come to bleed in a long wound:
Armies passing over the high mountains,
Devastating all, and then to reign in peace.
In the year that one eye will reign in France,
The court will be in very unpleasant trouble:
The great one of Blois will kill his friend:
The realm placed in harm and double doubt.
Montauban, Nîmes, Avignon and Béziers,
Plague, thunder and hail in the wake of Mars:
Of Paris bridge, Lyons wall, Montpellier,
After six hundreds and seven score three pairs.
Seven times will you see the British nation change,
Steeped in blood in  years:
Free not at all its support Germanic.
Aries doubt his Bastarnian pole.
Near the Rhine from the Noric mountains
Will be born a great one of people come too late,
One who will defend Sarmatia and the Pannonians,
One will not know what will have become of him.
Barbarian empire usurped by the third,
The greater part of his blood he will put to death:
Through senile death the fourth struck by him,
For fear that the blood through the blood be not dead.
Throughout all Asia Minor great proscription,
Even in Mysia, Lycia and Pamphilia.
Blood will be shed because of the absolution
Of a young black one filled with felony.
The great band and sect of crusaders
Will be arrayed in Mesopotamia:
Light company of the nearby river,
That such law will hold for an enemy.
Near the Douro by the closed Tyrian sea,
He will come to pierce the great Pyrenees mountains.
One hand shorter his opening glosses,
He will lead his traces to Carcassone.
The Roman power will be thoroughly abased,
Following in the footsteps of its great neighbor:
Hidden civil hatreds and debates
Will delay their follies for the buffoons.
The chief of Persia will occupy great Olchades,
The trireme fleet against the Mahometan people
From Parthia, and Media: and the Cyclades pillaged:
Long rest at the great Ionian port.
When the sepulcher of the great Roman is found,
The day after a Pontiff will be elected:
Scarcely will he be approved by the Senate
Poisoned, his blood in the sacred chalice.
The great Bailiff of Orléans put to death
Will be by one of blood revengeful:
Of death deserved he will not die, nor by chance:
He made captive poorly by his feet and hands.
A new sect of Philosophers
Despising death, gold, honors and riches
Will not be bordering upon the German mountains:
To follow them they will have power and crowds.
Leaderless people of Spain and Italy
Dead, overcome within the Peninsula:
Their dictator betrayed by irresponsible folly,
Swimming in blood everywhere in the latitude.
The great army led by a young man,
It will come to surrender itself into the hands of the enemies:
But the old one born to the half-pig,
He will cause Châlon and Mâcon to be friends.
The great Britain including England
Will come to be flooded very high by waters
The new League of Ausonia will make war,
So that they will come to strive against them.
Those in the isles long besieged
Will take vigor and force against their enemies:
Those outside dead overcome by hunger,
They will be put in greater hunger than ever before.
The good old man buried quite alive,
Near the great river through false suspicion:
The new old man ennobled by riches,
Captured on the road all his gold for ransom.
When the cripple will attain to the realm,
For his competitor he will have a near bastard:
He and the realm will become so very mangy
That before he recovers, it will be too late.
Naples, Florence, Faenza and Imola,
They will be on terms of such disagreement
As to delight in the wretches of Nola
Complaining of having mocked its chief.
Pau, Verona, Vicenza, Saragossa,
From distant swords lands wet with blood:
Very great plague will come with the great shell,
Relief near, and the remedies very far.
In Germany will be born diverse sects,
Coming very near happy paganism,
The heart captive and returns small,
They will return to paying the true tithe.
The third climate included under Aries
The year  in October,
The King of Persia captured by those of Egypt:
Conflict, death, loss: to the cross great shame.
The chief of Scotland, with six of Germany,
Captive of the Eastern seamen:
They will pass Gibraltar and Spain,
Present in Persia for the fearful new King.
The fatal everlasting order through the chain
Will come to turn through consistent order:
The chain of Marseilles will be broken:
The city taken, the enemy at the same time.
The worthy one chased out of the English realm,
The adviser through anger put to the fire:
His adherents will go so low to efface themselves
That the bastard will be half received.
The great shameless, audacious bawler,
He will be elected governor of the army:
The boldness of his contention,
The bridge broken, the city faint from fear.
Fréjus, Antibes, towns around Nice,
They will be thoroughly devastated by sea and by land:
The locusts by land and by sea the wind propitious,
Captured, dead, bound, pillaged without law of war.
The long hairs of Celtic Gaul
Accompanied by foreign nations,
They will make captive the people of Aquitaine,
For succumbing to their designs.
The great city will be thoroughly desolated,
Of the inhabitants not a single one will remain there:
Wall, sex, temple and virgin violated,
Through sword, fire, plague, cannon people will die.
The city taken through deceit and guile,
Taken in by means of a handsome youth:
Assault given by the Robine near the Aude,
He and all dead for having thoroughly deceived.
A chief of Ausonia will go to Spain
By sea, he will make a stop in Marseilles:
Before his death he will linger a long time:
After his death one will see a great marvel.
Gallic fleet, do not approach Corsica,
Less Sardinia, you will rue it:
Every one of you will die frustrated of the help of the cape:
You will swim in blood, captive you will not believe me.
From Barcelona a very great army by sea,
All Marseilles will tremble with terror:
Isles seized help shut off by sea,
Your traitor will swim on land.
At that time Cyprus will be frustrated
Of its relief by those of the Aegean Sea:
Old ones slaughtered: but by speeches and supplications
Their King seduced, Queen outraged more.
The great Satyr and Tiger of Hyrcania,
Gift presented to those of the Ocean:
A fleet's chief will set out from Carmania,
One who will take land at the Tyrren Phocaean.
The tree which had long been dead and withered,
In one night it will come to grow green again:
The Cronian King sick, Prince with club foot,
Feared by his enemies he will make his sail bound.
The world near the last period,
Saturn will come back again late:
Empire transferred towards the Dusky nation,
The eye plucked out by the Goshawk at Narbonne.
In Avignon the chief of the whole empire
Will make a stop on the way to desolated Paris:
Tricast will hold the anger of Hannibal:
Lyons will be poorly consoled for the change.
For five hundred years more one will keep count of him
Who was the ornament of his time:
Then suddenly great light will he give,
He who for this century will render them very satisfied.
The law of More will be seen to decline:
After another much more seductive:
Dnieper first will come to give way:
Through gifts and tongue another more attractive.
The Chief of Fossano will have his throat cut
By the leader of the bloodhound and greyhound:
The deed executed by those of the Tarpeian Rock,
Saturn in Leo February .
New law to occupy the new land
Towards Syria, Judea and Palestine:
The great barbarian empire to decay,
Before the Moon completes it cycle.
Two royal brothers will wage war so fiercely
That between them the war will be so mortal
That both will occupy the strong places:
Their great quarrel will fill realm and life.
In the grassy fields of Alleins and Vernègues
Of the Lubéron range near the Durance,
The conflict will be very sharp for both armies,
Mesopotamia will fail in France.
The last one honored amongst the Gauls,
Over the enemy man will he be victorious:
Force and land in a moment explored,
When the envious one will die from an arrow shot.
That of the remainder of blood unshed:
Venice demands that relief be given:
After having waited a very long time,
City delivered up at the first sound of the horn.
Because of death France will take to making a journey,
Fleet by sea, marching over the Pyrenees Mountains,
Spain in trouble, military people marching:
Some of the greatest Ladies carried off to France.
From Arras and Bourges many banners of Dusky Ones,
A greater number of Gascons to fight on foot,
Those along the Rhône will bleed the Spanish:
Near the mountain where Sagunto sits.
The impotent Prince angry, complaints and quarrels,
Rape and pillage, by cocks and Africans:
Great it is by land, by sea infinite sails,
Italy alone will be chasing Celts.
Cross, peace, under one the divine word accomplished,
Spain and Gaul will be united together:
Great disaster near, and combat very bitter:
No heart will be so hardy as not to tremble.
By the new clothes after the find is made,
Malicious plot and machination:
First will die he who will prove it,
Color Venetian trap.
The minor son of the great and hated Prince,
He will have a great touch of leprosy at the age of twenty:
Of grief his mother will die very sad and emaciated,
And he will die where the loose flesh falls.
The great city by prompt and sudden assault
Surprised at night, guards interrupted:
The guards and watches of Saint-Quentin
Slaughtered, guards and the portals broken.
The chief of the army in the middle of the crowd
Will be wounded by an arrow shot in the thighs,
When Geneva in tears and distress
Will be betrayed by Lausanne and the Swiss.
The young Prince falsely accused
Will plunge the army into trouble and quarrels:
The chief murdered for his support,
Scepter to pacify: then to cure scrofula.
.
He who will have the government of the great cope
Will be prevailed upon to perform several deeds:
The twelve red one who will come to soil the cloth,
Under murder, murder will come to be perpetrated.
The greater army put to flight in disorder,
Scarcely further will it be pursued:
Army reassembled and the legion reduced,
Then it will be chased out completely from the Gauls.
News of the greater loss reported,
The report will astonish the army:
Troops united against the revolted:
The double phalanx will abandon the great one.
The sudden death of the first personage
Will have caused a change and put another in the sovereignty:
Soon, late come so high and of low age,
Such by land and sea that it will be necessary to fear him.
From where they will think to make famine come,
From there will come the surfeit:
The eye of the sea through canine greed
For the one the other will give oil and wheat.
The city of liberty made servile:
Made the asylum of profligates and dreamers.
The King changed to them not so violent:
From one hundred become more than a thousand.
To change at Beaune, Nuits, Châlon and Dijon,
The duke wishing to improve the Carmelite [nun]
Marching near the river, fish, diver's beak
Will see the tail: the gate will be locked.
Some of those most lettered in the celestial facts
Will be condemned by illiterate princes:
Punished by Edict, hunted, like criminals,
And put to death wherever they will be found.
Before Rouen the siege laid by the Insubrians,
By land and sea the passages shut up:
By Hainaut and Flanders, by Ghent and those of Liége
Through cloaked gifts they will ravage the shores.
Peace and plenty for a long time the place will praise:
Throughout his realm the fleur-de-lis deserted:
Bodies dead by water, land one will bring there,
Vainly awaiting the good fortune to be buried there.
The change will be very difficult:
City and province will gain by the change:
Heart high, prudent established, chased out one cunning,
Sea, land, people will change their state.
The great army will be chased out,
In one moment it will be needed by the King:
The faith promised from afar will be broken,
He will be seen naked in pitiful disorder.
The legion in the marine fleet
Will burn lime, lodestone sulfur and pitch:
The long rest in the secure place:
Port Selyn and Monaco, fire will consume them.
Beneath the holy earth of a soul the faint voice heard,
Human flame seen to shine as divine:
It will cause the earth to be stained with the blood of the monks,
And to destroy the holy temples for the impure ones.
Lofty bodies endlessly visible to the eye,
Through these reasons they will come to obscure:
Body, forehead included, sense and head invisible,
Diminishing the sacred prayers.
The great swarm of bees will arise,
Such that one will not know whence they have come;
By night the ambush, the sentinel under the vines
City delivered by five babblers not naked.
Salon, Tarascon, Mausol, the arch of SEX.,
Where the pyramid is still standing:
They will come to deliver the Prince of Annemark,
Redemption reviled in the temple of Artemis.
When Venus will be covered by the Sun,
Under the splendor will be a hidden form:
Mercury will have exposed them to the fire,
Through warlike noise it will be insulted.
The Sun hidden eclipsed by Mercury
Will be placed only second in the sky:
Of Vulcan Hermes will be made into food,
The Sun will be seen pure, glowing red and golden.
Eleven more times the Moon the Sun will not want,
All raised and lowered by degree:
And put so low that one will stitch little gold:
Such that after famine plague, the secret uncovered.
The Moon in the full of night over the high mountain,
The new sage with a lone brain sees it:
By his disciples invited to be immortal,
Eyes to the south. Hands in bosoms, bodies in the fire.
In the places and times of flesh giving way to fish,
The communal law will be made in opposition:
It will hold strongly the old ones, then removed from the midst,
Loving of Everything in Common put far behind.
Jupiter joined more to Venus than to the Moon
Appearing with white fullness:
Venus hidden under the whiteness of Neptune
Struck by Mars through the white stew.
The great one of the foreign land led captive,
Chained in gold offered to King Chyren:
He who in Ausonia, Milan will lose the war,
And all his army put to fire and sword.
The fire put out the virgins will betray
The greater part of the new band:
Lightning in sword and lance the lone Kings will guard
Etruria and Corsica, by night throat cut.
The new sports set up again in Gaul,
After victory in the Insubrian campaign:
Mountains of Hesperia, the great ones tied and trussed up:
Romania and Spain to tremble with fear.
The Gaul will come to penetrate the mountains by leaps:
He will occupy the great place of Insubria:
His army to enter to the greatest depth,
Genoa and Monaco will drive back the red fleet.
While he will engross the Duke, King and Queen
With the captive Byzantine chief in Samothrace:
Before the assault one will eat the order:
The Rhodians will demand relief,
Through the neglect of its heirs abandoned.
The Arab empire will reveal its course,
The cause set right again by Hesperia.
The fortresses of the besieged shut up,
Through gunpowder sunk into the abyss:
The traitors will all be stowed away alive,
Never did such a pitiful schism happen to the sextons.
Female sex captive as a hostage
Will come by night to deceive the guards:
The chief of the army deceived by her language
Will abandon her to the people, it will be pitiful to see.
Geneva and Langres through those of Chartres and Dôle
And through Grenoble captive at Montélimar
Seyssel, Lausanne, through fraudulent deceit,
They will betray them for sixty marks of gold.
Arms will be heard clashing in the sky:
That very same year the divine ones enemies:
They will want unjustly to discuss the holy laws:
Through lightning and war the complacent one put to death.
Two large ones of Mende, of Rodez and Milhau
Cahors, Limoges, Castres bad week
By night the entry, from Bordeaux an insult
Through Périgord at the peal of the bell.
Through conflict a King will abandon his realm:
The greatest chief will fail in time of need:
Dead, ruined few will escape it,
All cut up, one will be a witness to it.
The fact well defended by excellence,
Guard yourself Tours from your near ruin:
London and Nantes will make a defense through Reims
Not passing further in the time of the drizzle.
The savage black one when he will have tried
His bloody hand at fire, sword and drawn bows:
All of his people will be terribly frightened,
Seeing the greatest ones hung by neck and feet.
The fertile, spacious Ausonian plain
Will produce so many gadflies and locusts,
The solar brightness will become clouded,
All devoured, great plague to come from them.
Before the people blood will be shed,
Only from the high heavens will it come far:
But for a long time of one nothing will be heard,
The spirit of a lone one will come to bear witness against it.
Libra will see the Hesperias govern,
Holding the monarchy of heaven and earth:
No one will see the forces of Asia perished,
Only seven hold the hierarchy in order.
A Duke eager to follow his enemy
Will enter within impeding the phalanx:
Hurried on foot they will come to pursue so closely
That the day will see a conflict near Ganges.
In the besieged city men and woman to the walls,
Enemies outside the chief ready to surrender:
The wind will be strongly against the troops,
They will be driven away through lime, dust and ashes.
The fugitives and exiles recalled:
Fathers and sons great garnishing of the deep wells:
The cruel father and his people choked:
His far worse son submerged in the well.
Of the name which no Gallic King ever had
Never was there so fearful a thunderbolt,
Italy, Spain and the English trembling,
Very attentive to a woman and foreigners.
When the crow on the tower made of brick
For seven hours will continue to scream:
Death foretold, the statue stained with blood,
Tyrant murdered, people praying to their Gods.
After the victory of the raving tongue,
The spirit tempered in tranquillity and repose:
Throughout the conflict the bloody victor makes orations,
Roasting the tongue and the flesh and the bones.
Ignorant envy upheld before the great King,
He will propose forbidding the writings:
His wife not his wife tempted by another,
Twice two more neither skill nor cries.
To swallow the burning Sun in the throat,
The Etruscan land washed by human blood:
The chief pail of water, to lead his son away,
Captive lady conducted into Turkish land.
Two beset in burning fervor:
By thirst for two full cups extinguished,
The fort filed, and an old dreamer,
To the Genevans he will show the track from Nira.
The seven children left in hostage,
The third will come to slaughter his child:
Because of his son two will be pierced by the point,
Genoa, Florence, he will come to confuse them.
The old one mocked and deprived of his place,
By the foreigner who will suborn him:
Hands of his son eaten before his face,
His brother to Chartres, Orléans Rouen will betray.
A colonel with ambition plots,
He will seize the greatest army,
Against his Prince false invention,
And he will be discovered under his arbor.
The Celtic army against the mountaineers,
Those who will be learned and able in bird-calling:
Peasants will soon work fresh presses,
All hurled on the sword's edge.
The transgressor in bourgeois garb,
He will come to try the King with his offense:
Fifteen soldiers for the most part bandits,
Last of life and chief of his fortune.
Towards the deserter of the great fortress,
After he will have abandoned his place,
His adversary will exhibit very great prowess,
The Emperor soon dead will be condemned.
Under the feigned color of seven shaven heads
Diverse spies will be scattered:
Wells and fountains sprinkled with poisons,
At the fort of Genoa devourers of men.
The year that Saturn and Mars are equal fiery,
The air very dry parched long meteor:
Through secret fires a great place blazing from burning heat,
Little rain, warm wind, wars, incursions.
The two greatest ones of Asia and of Africa,
From the Rhine and Lower Danube they will be said to have come,
Cries, tears at Malta and the Ligurian side.
The exiles will hold the great city,
The citizens dead, murdered and driven out:
Those of Aquileia will promise Parma
To show them the entry through the untracked places.
Quite contiguous to the great Pyrenees mountains,
One to direct a great army against the Eagle:
Veins opened, forces exterminated,
As far as Pau will he come to chase the chief.
In place of the bride the daughters slaughtered,
Murder with great error no survivor to be:
Within the well vestals inundated,
The bride extinguished by a drink of Aconite.
Those of Nîmes through Agen and Lectoure
At Saint-Félix will hold their parliament:
Those of Bazas will come at the unhappy hour
To seize Condom and Marsan promptly.
The great nephew by force will test
The treaty made by the pusillanimous heart:
The Duke will try Ferrara and Asti,
When the pantomime will take place in the evening.
Those of lake Geneva and of Mâcon:
All assembled against those of Aquitaine:
Many Germans many more Swiss,
They will be routed along with those of the Humane.
Ready to fight one will desert,
The chief adversary will obtain the victory:
The rear guard will make a defense,
The faltering ones dead in the white territory.
The people of Agen by those of Périgord
Will be vexed, holding as far as the Rhône:
The union of Gascons and Bigorre
To betray the temple, the priest giving his sermon.
Selin monarch Italy peaceful,
Realms united by the Christian King of the World:
Dying he will want to lie in Blois soil,
After having chased the pirates from the sea.
The great army of the civil struggle,
By night Parma to the foreign one discovered,
Seventy-nine murdered in the town,
The foreigners all put to the sword.
Blood Royal flee, Monheurt, Mas, Aiguillon,
The Landes will be filled by Bordelais,
Navarre, Bigorre points and spurs,
Deep in hunger to devour acorns of the cork oak.
Near the great river, great ditch, earth drawn out,
In fifteen parts will the water be divided:
The city taken, fire, blood, cries, sad conflict,
And the greatest part involving the coliseum.
Promptly will one build a bridge of boats,
To pass the army of the great Belgian Prince:
Poured forth inside and not far from Brussels,
Passed beyond, seven cut up by pike.
A throng approaches coming from Slavonia,
The old Destroyer the city will ruin:
He will see his Romania quite desolated,
Then he will not know how to put out the great flame.
Combat by night the valiant captain
Conquered will flee few people conquered:
His people stirred up, sedition not in vain,
His own son will hold him besieged.
A great one of Auxerre will die very miserable,
Driven out by those who had been under him:
Put in chains, behind a strong cable,
In the year that Mars, Venus and Sun are in conjunction in summer.
The white coal will be chased by the black one,
Made prisoner led to the dung cart,
Moor Camel on twisted feet,
Then the younger one will blind the hobby falcon.
The year that Saturn will be conjoined in Aquarius
With the Sun, the very powerful King
Will be received and anointed at Reims and Aix,
After conquests he will murder the innocent.
A King's son learned in many languages,
Different from his senior in the realm:
His handsome father understood by the greater son,
He will cause his principal adherent to perish.
Anthony by name great by the filthy fact
Of Lousiness wasted to his end:
One who will want to be desirous of lead,
Passing the port he will be immersed by the elected one.
Thirty of London will conspire secretly
Against their King, the enterprise on the bridge:
He and his satellites will have a distaste for death,
A fair King elected, native of Frisia.
The two armies will be unable to unite at the walls,
In that instant Milan and Pavia to tremble:
Hunger, thirst, doubt will come to plague them very strongly
They will not have a single morsel of meat, bread or victuals.
For the Gallic Duke compelled to fight in the duel,
The ship of Melilla will not approach Monaco,
Wrongly accused, perpetual prison,
His son will strive to reign before his death.
The head of the valiant captain cut off,
It will be thrown before his adversary:
His body hung on the sail-yard of the ship,
Confused it will flee by oars against the wind.
A serpent seen near the royal bed,
It will be by the lady at night the dogs will not bark:
Then to be born in France a Prince so royal,
Come from heaven all the Princes will see him.
Two great brothers will be chased out of Spain,
The elder conquered under the Pyrenees mountains:
The sea to redden, Rhône, bloody Lake Geneva from Germany,
Narbonne, Béziers contaminated by Agde.
The realm left to two they will hold it very briefly,
Three years and seven months passed by they will make war:
The two Vestals will rebel in opposition,
Victor the younger in the land of Brittany.
The elder sister of the British Isle
Will be born fifteen years before her brother,
Because of her promise procuring verification,
She will succeed to the kingdom of the balance.
The year that Mercury, Mars, Venus in retrogression,
The line of the great Monarch will not fail:
Elected by the Portuguese people near Cadiz,
One who will come to grow very old in peace and reign.
Those of Alba will pass into Rome,
By means of Langres the multitude muffled up,
Marquis and Duke will pardon no man,
Fire, blood, smallpox no water the crops to fail.
The valiant elder son of the King's daughter,
He will hurl back the Celts very far,
Such that he will cast thunderbolts, so many in such an array
Few and distant, then deep into the Hesperias.
From the celestial fire on the Royal edifice,
When the light of Mars will go out,
Seven months great war, people dead through evil
Rouen, Evreux the King will not fail.
Before the coming of Celtic ruin,
In the temple two will parley
Pike and dagger to the heart of one mounted on the steed,
They will bury the great one without making any noise.
Seven conspirators at the banquet will cause to flash
The iron out of the ship against the three:
One will have the two fleets brought to the great one,
When through the evil the latter shoots him in the forehead.
The successor to the Duchy will come,
Very far beyond the Tuscan Sea:
A Gallic branch will hold Florence,
The nautical Frog in its bosom be agreement.
The large mastiff expelled from the city
Will be vexed by the strange alliance,
After having chased the stag to the fields
The wolf and the Bear will defy each other.
Under the shadowy pretense of removing servitude,
He will himself usurp the people and city:
He will do worse because of the deceit of the young prostitute,
Delivered in the field reading the false poem.
The Augur putting his hand upon the head of the King
Will come to pray for the peace of Italy:
He will come to move the scepter to his left hand,
From King he will become pacific Emperor.
The bones of the Triumvir will be found,
Looking for a deep enigmatic treasure:
Those from thereabouts will not be at rest,
Digging for this thing of marble and metallic lead.
There will be unleashed live fire, hidden death,
Horrible and frightful within the globes,
By night the city reduced to dust by the fleet,
The city afire, the enemy amenable.
The great arch demolished down to its base,
By the chief captive his friend forestalled,
He will be born of the lady with hairy forehead and face,
Then through cunning the Duke overtaken by death.
A Celtic chief wounded in the conflict
Seeing death overtaking his men near a cellar:
Pressed by blood and wounds and enemies,
And relief by four unknown ones.
The sea will not be passed over safely by those of the Sun,
Those of Venus will hold all Africa:
Saturn will no longer occupy their realm,
And the Asiatic part will change.
To near the Lake of Geneva will it be conducted,
By the foreign maiden wishing to betray the city:
Before its murder at Augsburg the great suite,
And those of the Rhine will come to invade it.
With great fury the Roman Belgian King
Will want to vex the barbarian with his phalanx:
Fury gnashing, he will chase the African people
From the Pannonias to the pillars of Hercules.
Saturn and Mars in Leo Spain captive,
By the African chief trapped in the conflict,
Near Malta, Herod taken alive,
And the Roman scepter will be struck down by the Cock.
The great Pontiff taken captive while navigating,
The great one thereafter to fail the clergy in tumult:
Second one elected absent his estate declines,
His favorite bastard to death broken on the wheel.
The Sabaean tear no longer at its high price,
Turning human flesh into ashes through death,
At the isle of Pharos disturbed by the Crusaders,
When at Rhodes will appear a hard phantom.
By night the King passing near an Alley,
He of Cyprus and the principal guard:
The King mistaken, the hand flees the length of the Rhône,
The conspirators will set out to put him to death.
The unhappy abandoned one will die of grief,
His conqueress will celebrate the hecatomb:
Pristine law, free edict drawn up,
The wall and the Prince falls on the seventh day.
The great Royal one of gold, augmented by brass,
The agreement broken, war opened by a young man:
People afflicted because of a lamented chief,
The land will be covered with barbarian blood.
The great army will pass beyond the Alps,
Shortly before will be born a monster scoundrel:
Prodigious and sudden he will turn
The great Tuscan to his nearest place.
By the death of the Latin Monarch,
Those whom he will have assisted through his reign:
The fire will light up again the booty divided,
Public death for the bold ones who incurred it.
Before the great one has given up the ghost at Rome,
Great terror for the foreign army:
The ambush by squadrons near Parma,
Then the two red ones will celebrate together.
The two contented ones will be united together,
When for the most part they will be conjoined with Mars:
The great one of Africa trembles in terror,
Duumvirate disjoined by the fleet.
The realm and law raised under Venus,
Saturn will have dominion over Jupiter:
The law and realm raised by the Sun,
Through those of Saturn it will suffer the worst.
The Arab Prince Mars, Sun, Venus, Leo,
The rule of the Church will succumb by sea:
Towards Persia very nearly a million men,
The true serpent will invade Byzantium and Egypt.
The slavish people through luck in war
Will become elevated to a very high degree:
They will change their Prince, one born a provincial,
An army raised in the mountains to pass over the sea.
Through fire and arms not far from the Black Sea,
He will come from Persia to occupy Trebizond:
Pharos, Mytilene to tremble, the Sun joyful,
The Adriatic Sea covered with Arab blood.
His arm hung and leg bound,
Face pale, dagger hidden in his bosom,
Three who will be sworn in the fray
Against the great one of Genoa will the steel be unleashed.
Liberty will not be recovered,
A proud, villainous, wicked black one will occupy it,
When the matter of the bridge will be opened,
The republic of Venice vexed by the Danube.
All around the great city
Soldiers will be lodged throughout the fields and towns:
To give the assault Paris, Rome incited,
Then upon the bridge great pillage will be carried out.
Through the Attic land fountain of wisdom,
At present the rose of the world:
The bridge ruined, and its great pre-eminence
Will be subjected, a wreck amidst the waves.
Where all is good, the Sun all beneficial and the Moon
Is abundant, its ruin approaches:
From the sky it advances to change your fortune.
In the same state as the seventh rock.
Of the principal ones of the city in rebellion
Who will strive mightily to recover their liberty:
The males cut up, unhappy fray,
Cries, groans at Nantes pitiful to see.
From the deepest part of the English West
Where the head of the British isle is
A fleet will enter the Gironde through Blois,
Through wine and salt, fires hidden in the casks.
For the free city of the great Crescent sea,
Which still carries the stone in its stomach,
The English fleet will come under the drizzle
To seize a branch, war opened by the great one.
The sister's brother through the quarrel and deceit
Will come to mix dew in the mineral:
On the cake given to the slow old woman,
She dies tasting it she will be simple and rustic.
Three hundred will be in accord with one will
To come to the execution of their blow,
Twenty months after all memory
Their king betrayed simulating feigned hate.
He who will succeed the great monarch on his death
Will lead an illicit and wanton life:
Through nonchalance he will give way to all,
So that in the end the Salic law will fail.
Issued from the true branch of the fleur-de-lis,
Placed and lodged as heir of Etruria:
His ancient blood woven by long hand,
He will cause the escutcheon of Florence to bloom.
The blood royal will be so very mixed,
Gauls will be constrained by Hesperia:
One will wait until his term has expired,
And until the memory of his voice has perished.
Born in the shadows and during a dark day,
He will be sovereign in realm and goodness:
He will cause his blood to rise again in the ancient urn,
Renewing the age of gold for that of brass.
Mars raised to his highest belfry
Will cause the Savoyards to withdraw from France:
The Lombard people will cause very great terror
To those of the Eagle included under the Balance.
The great ruin of the holy things is not far off,
Provence, Naples, Sicily, Sées and Pons:
In Germany, at the Rhine and Cologne,
Vexed to death by all those of Mainz.
On sea the red one will be taken by pirates,
Because of him peace will be troubled:
Anger and greed will he expose through a false act,
The army doubled by the great Pontiff.
The great Empire will soon be desolated
And transferred to near the Ardennes:
The two bastards beheaded by the oldest one,
And Bronzebeard the hawk-nose will reign.
Quarrels and new schism by the red hats
When the Sabine will have been elected:
They will produce great sophism against him,
And Rome will be injured by those of Alba.
The great Arab will march far forward,
He will be betrayed by the Byzantians:
Ancient Rhodes will come to meet him,
And greater harm through the Austrian Hungarians.
After the great affliction of the scepter,
Two enemies will be defeated by them:
A fleet from Africa will appear before the Hungarians,
By land and sea horrible deeds will take place.
Not from Spain but from ancient France
Will one be elected for the trembling bark,
To the enemy will a promise be made,
He who will cause a cruel plague in his realm.
The year that the brothers of the lily come of age,
One of them will hold the great Romania:
The mountains to tremble, Latin passage opened,
Agreement to march against the fort of Armenia.
The people of Dacia, England, Poland
And of Bohemia will make a new league:
To pass beyond the pillars of Hercules,
The Barcelonians and Tuscans will prepare a cruel plot.
There will be a King who will give opposition,
The exiles raised over the realm:
The pure poor people to swim in blood,
And for a long time will he flourish under such a device.
The law of the Sun and of Venus in strife,
Appropriating the spirit of prophecy:
Neither the one nor the other will be understood,
The law of the great Messiah will hold through the Sun.
From beyond the Black Sea and great Tartary,
There will be a King who will come to see Gaul,
He will pierce through Alania and Armenia,
And within Byzantium will he leave his bloody rod.
In the country of Arabia Felix
There will be born one powerful in the law of Mahomet:
To vex Spain, to conquer Grenada,
And more by sea against the Ligurian people.
Through the death of the very old Pontiff
A Roman of good age will be elected,
Of him it will be said that he weakens his see,
But long will he sit and in biting activity.
There will go from Mont and Aventin,
One who through the hole will warn the army:
Between two rocks will the booty be taken,
Of Sectus' mausoleum the renown to fail.
By the aqueduct of Uzès over the Gard,
Through the forest and inaccessible mountain,
In the middle of the bridge there will be cut in the fist
The chief of Nîmes who will be very terrible.
Too long a stay for the English chief at Nîmes,
Towards Spain Redbeard to the rescue:
Many will die by war opened that day,
When a bearded star will fall in Artois.
By the shaven head a very bad choice will come to be made,
Overburdened he will not pass the gate:
He will speak with such great fury and rage,
That to fire and blood he will consign the entire sex.
The child of the great one not by his birth,
He will subjugate the high Apennine mountains:
He will cause all those of the balance to tremble,
And from the Pyrenees to Mont Cenis.
One will see blood to rain on the rocks,
Sun in the East, Saturn in the West:
Near Orgon war, at Rome great evil to be seen,
Ships sunk to the bottom, taken by Trident.
From the vain enterprise honor and undue complaint,
Boats tossed about among the Latins, cold, hunger, waves
Not far from the Tiber the land stained with blood,
And diverse plagues will be upon mankind.
Those assembled by the tranquillity of the great number,
By land and sea counsel countermanded:
Near Antonne Genoa, Nice in the shadow
Through fields and towns in revolt against the chief.
Come suddenly the terror will be great,
Hidden by the principal ones of the affair:
And the lady on the charcoal will no longer be in sight,
Thus little by little will the great ones be angered.
Under the ancient vestal edifices,
Not far from the ruined aqueduct:
The glittering metals are of the Sun and Moon,
The lamp of Trajan engraved with gold burning.
When the chief of Perugia will not venture his tunic 
Sense under cover to strip himself quite naked:
Seven will be taken Aristocratic deed,
Father and son dead through a point in the collar.
In the Danube and of the Rhine will come to drink
The great Camel, not repenting it:
Those of the Rhône to tremble, and much more so those of the Loire,
and near the Alps the Cock will ruin him.
No longer will the great one be in his false sleep,
Uneasiness will come to replace tranquillity:
A phalanx of gold, azure and vermilion arrayed
To subjugate Africa and gnaw it to the bone,
Of the regions subject to the Balance,
They will trouble the mountains with great war,
Captives the entire sex enthralled and all Byzantium,
So that at dawn they will spread the news from land to land.
By the fury of one who will wait for the water,
By his great rage the entire army moved:
Seventeen boats loaded with the noble,
The messenger come late along the Rhône.
For the pleasure of the voluptuous edict,
One will mix poison in the faith:
Venus will be in a course so virtuous
As to becloud the whole quality of the Sun.
The Church of God will be persecuted,
And the holy Temples will be plundered,
The child will put his mother out in her shift,
Arabs will be allied with the Poles.
Of Trojan blood will be born a Germanic heart
Who will rise to very high power:
He will drive out the foreign Arabic people,
Returning the Church to its pristine pre-eminence.
He will rise high over the estate more to the right,
He will remain seated on the square stone,
Towards the south facing to his left,
The crooked staff in his hand his mouth sealed.
In a free place will he pitch his tent,
And he will not want to lodge in the cities:
Aix, Carpentras, L'Isle, Vaucluse Mont, Cavaillon,
Throughout all these places will he abolish his trace.
All degrees of Ecclesiastical honor
Will be changed to that of Jupiter and Quirinus:
The priest of Quirinus to one of Mars,
Then a King of France will make him one of Vulcan.
The two will not be united for very long,
And in thirteen years to the Barbarian Satrap:
On both sides they will cause such loss
That one will bless the Bark and its cope.
The sacred pomp will come to lower its wings,
Through the coming of the great legislator:
He will raise the humble, he will vex the rebels,
His like will not appear on this earth.
Ogmios will approach great Byzantium,
The Barbaric League will be driven out:
Of the two laws the heathen one will give way,
Barbarian and Frank in perpetual strife.
The royal bird over the city of the Sun,
Seven months in advance it will deliver a nocturnal omen:
The Eastern wall will fall lightning thunder,
Seven days the enemies directly to the gates.
At the conclusion of the treaty outside the fortress
Will not go he who is placed in despair:
When those of Arbois, of Langres against Bresse
Will have the mountains of Dôle an enemy ambush.
Those who will have undertaken to subvert,
An unparalleled realm, powerful and invincible:
They will act through deceit, nights three to warn,
When the greatest one will read his Bible at the table.
He will be born of the gulf and unmeasured city,
Born of obscure and dark family:
He who the revered power of the great King
Will want to destroy through Rouen and Evreux.
Through the Suevi and neighboring places,
They will be at war over the clouds:
Swarm of marine locusts and gnats,
The faults of Geneva will be laid quite bare.
Divided by the two heads and three arms,
The great city will be vexed by waters:
Some great ones among them led astray in exile,
Byzantium hard pressed by the head of Persia.
The year that Saturn is out of bondage,
In the Frank land he will be inundated by water:
Of Trojan blood will his marriage be,
And he will be confined safely be the Spaniards.
Through a frightful flood upon the sand,
A marine monster from other seas found:
Near the place will be made a refuge,
Holding Savona the slave of Turin.
Into Hungary through Bohemia, Navarre,
and under that banner holy insurrections:
By the fleur-de-lis legion carrying the bar,
Against Orléans they will cause disturbances.
In the Cyclades, in Perinthus and Larissa,
In Sparta and the entire Pelopennesus:
Very great famine, plague through false dust,
Nine months will it last and throughout the entire peninsula.
At the market that they call that of liars,
Of the entire Torrent and field of Athens:
They will be surprised by the light horses,
By those of Alba when Mars is in Leo and Saturn in Aquarius.
After the see has been held seventeen years,
Five will change within the same period of time:
Then one will be elected at the same time,
One who will not be too comfortable to the Romans.
Under the land of the round lunar globe,
When Mercury will be dominating:
The isle of Scotland will produce a luminary,
One who will put the English into confusion.
He will transfer into great Germany
Brabant and Flanders, Ghent, Bruges and Boulogne:
The truce feigned, the great Duke of Armenia
Will assail Vienna and Cologne.
The nautical oar will tempt the shadows,
Then it will come to stir up the great Empire:
In the Aegean Sea the impediments of wood
Obstructing the diverted Tyrrhenian Sea.
The rose upon the middle of the great world,
For new deeds public shedding of blood:
To speak the truth, one will have a closed mouth,
Then at the time of need the awaited one will come late.
The one born deformed suffocated in horror,
In the habitable city of the great King:
The severe edict of the captives revoked,
Hail and thunder, Condom inestimable.
At the forty-eighth climacteric degree,
At the end of Cancer very great dryness:
Fish in sea, river, lake boiled hectic,
Béarn, Bigorre in distress through fire from the sky.
Milan, Ferrara, Turin and Aquileia,
Capua, Brindisi vexed by the Celtic nation:
By the Lion and his Eagle’s phalanx,
When the old British chief Rome will have.
The incendiary trapped in his own fire,
Of fire from the sky at Carcassonne and the Comminges:
Foix, Auch, Mazères, the high old man escaped,
Through those of Hesse and Thuringia, and some Saxons.
Around the Pyrenees mountains a great throng
Of foreign people to aid the new King:
Near the great temple of Le Mas by the Garonne,
A Roman chief will fear him in the water.
In the year five hundred eighty more or less,
One will await a very strange century:
In the year seven hundred and three the heavens witness thereof,
That several kingdoms one to five will make a change.
The river that tries the new Celtic heir
Will be in great discord with the Empire:
The young Prince through the ecclesiastical people
Will remove the scepter of the crown of concord.
The Celtic river will change its course,
No longer will it include the city of Agrippina:
All changed except the old language,
Saturn, Leo, Mars, Cancer in plunder.
Very great famine through pestiferous wave,
Through long rain the length of the arctic pole:
Samarobryn one hundred leagues from the hemisphere,
The will live without law exempt from politics.
There will appear towards the North
Not far from Cancer the bearded star:
Susa, Siena, Boeotia, Eretria,
The great one of Rome will die, the night over.
Norway and Dacia and the British Isle
Will be vexed by the united brothers:
The Roman chief sprung from Gallic blood
And his forces hurled back into the forests.
Those who were in the realm for knowledge
Will become impoverished at the change of King:
Some exiled without support, having no gold,
The lettered and letters will not be at a high premium.
In the sacred temples scandals will be perpetrated,
They will be reckoned as honors and commendations:
Of one of whom they engrave medals of silver and of gold,
The end will be in very strange torments.
In a short time the temples with colors
Of white and black of the two intermixed:
Red and yellow ones will carry off theirs from them,
Blood, land, plague, famine, fire extinguished by water.
The seven branches will be reduced to three,
The elder ones will be surprised by death,
The two will be seduced to fratricide,
The conspirators will be dead while sleeping.
To raise forces to ascend to the empire
In the Vatican the Royal blood will hold fast:
Flemings, English, Spain with Aspire
Against Italy and France will he contend.
A doubtful one will not come far from the realm,
The greater part will want to uphold him:
A Capitol will not want him to reign at all,
He will be unable to bear his great burden.
Far from his land a King will lose the battle,
At once escaped, pursued, then captured,
Ignorant one taken under the golden mail,
Under false garb, and the enemy surprised.
Under the tomb will be found a Prince
Who will be valued above Nuremberg:
The Spanish King in Capricorn thin,
Deceived and betrayed by the great Wittenberg.
That which will be carried off by the young Hawk,
By the Normans of France and Picardy:
The black ones of the temple of the Black Forest place
Will make an inn and fire of Lombardy.
After the files the ass-drivers burned,
They will be obliged to change diverse garbs:
Those of Saturn burned by the millers,
Except the greater part which will not be covered.
The great King abandoned by the Physicians,
By fate not the Jew's art he remains alive,
He and his kindred pushed high in the realm,
Pardon given to the race which denies Christ.
The true flame will devour the lady
Who will want to put the Innocent Ones to the fire:
Before the assault the army is inflamed,
When in Seville a monster in beef will be seen.
The feigned union will be of short duration,
Some changed most reformed:
In the vessels people will be in suffering,
Then Rome will have a new Leopard.
When those of the arctic pole are united together,
Great terror and fear in the East:
Newly elected, the great trembling supported,
Rhodes, Byzantium stained with Barbarian blood.
Within the land of the great heavenly temple,
Nephew murdered at London through feigned peace:
The bark will then become schismatic,
Sham liberty will be proclaimed everywhere.
Coins depreciated by the spirit of the realm,
And people will be stirred up against their King:
New peace made, holy laws become worse,
Paris was never in so severe an array.
Mars and the scepter will be found conjoined
Under Cancer calamitous war:
Shortly afterwards a new King will be anointed,
One who for a long time will pacify the earth.
Through adverse Mars will the monarchy
Of the great fisherman be in ruinous trouble:
The young red black one will seize the hierarchy,
The traitors will act on a day of drizzle.
For four years the see will be held with some little good,
One libidinous in life will succeed to it:
Ravenna, Pisa and Verona will give support,
Longing to elevate the Papal cross.
Within the Isles of five rivers to one,
Through the expansion of the great Chyren Selin:
Through the drizzles in the air the fury of one,
Six escaped, hidden bundles of flax.
The great Celt will enter Rome,
Leading a throng of the exiled and banished:
The great Pastor will put to death every man
Who was united at the Alps for the cock.
The saintly widow hearing the news,
Of her offspring placed in perplexity and trouble:
He who will be instructed to appease the quarrels,
He will pile them up by his pursuit of the shaven heads.
Through the appearance of the feigned sanctity,
The siege will be betrayed to the enemies:
In the night when they trusted to sleep in safety,
Near Brabant will march those of Liège.
The King will find that which he desired so much
When the Prelate will be blamed unjustly:
His reply to the Duke will leave him dissatisfied,
He who in Milan will put several to death.
Beaten to death by rods for treason,
Captured he will be overcome through his disorder:
Frivolous counsel held out to the great captive,
When Berich will come to bite his nose in fury.
His last hand through sanguinary,
He will be unable to protect himself by sea:
Between two rivers he will fear the military hand,
The black and irate one will make him rue it.
The device of flying fire
Will come to trouble the great besieged chief:
Within there will be such sedition
That the profligate ones will be in despair.
Near the Bear and close to the white wool,
Aries, Taurus, Cancer, Leo, Virgo,
Mars, Jupiter, the Sun will burn a great plain,
Woods and cities letters hidden in the candle.
Neither good nor evil through terrestrial battle
Will reach the confines of Perugia,
Pisa to rebel, Florence to see an evil existence,
King by night wounded on a mule with black housing.
The ancient work will be finished,
Evil ruin will fall upon the great one from the roof:
Dead they will accuse an innocent one of the deed,
The guilty one hidden in the copse in the drizzle.
The enemies of peace to the profligates,
After having conquered Italy:
The bloodthirsty black one, red, will be exposed,
Fire, blood shed, water colored by blood.
The child of the realm through the capture of his father
Will be plundered to deliver him:
Near the Lake of Perugia the azure captive,
The hostage troop to become far too drunk.
To quench the great thirst the great one of Mainz
Will be deprived of his great dignity:
Those of Cologne will come to complain so loudly
That the great rump will be thrown into the Rhine.
The second chief of the realm of Annemark,
Through those of Frisia and of the British Isle,
Will spend more than one hundred thousand marks,
Exploiting in vain the voyage to Italy.
To Ogmios will be left the realm
Of the great Selin, who will in fact do more:
Throughout Italy will he extend his banner,
He will be ruled by a prudent deformed one.
For a long time will she remain uninhabited,
Around where the Seine and the Marne she comes to water:
Tried by the Thames and warriors,
The guards deceived in trusting in the repulse.
By night the Rainbow will appear for Nantes,
By marine arts they will stir up rain:
In the Gulf of Arabia a great fleet will plunge to the bottom,
In Saxony a monster will be born of a bear and a sow.
The very learned governor of the realm,
Not wishing to consent to the royal deed:
The fleet at Melilla through contrary wind
Will deliver him to his most disloyal one.
A just one will be sent back again into exile,
Through pestilence to the confines of Nonseggle,
His reply to the red one will cause him to be misled,
The King withdrawing to the Frog and the Eagle.
The two great ones assembled between two mountains
Will abandon their secret quarrel:
Brussels and Dôle overcome by Langres,
To execute their plague at Malines.
The too false and seductive sanctity,
Accompanied by an eloquent tongue:
The old city, and Parma too premature,
Florence and Siena they will render more desert.
The great Pontiff of the party of Mars
Will subjugate the confines of the Danube:
The cross to pursue, through sword hook or crook,
Captives, gold, jewels more than one hundred thousand rubies.
Within the pit will be found the bones,
Incest will be committed by the stepmother:
The state changed, they will demand fame and praise,
And they will have Mars attending as their star.
People assembled to see a new spectacle,
Princes and Kings amongst many bystanders,
Pillars walls to fall: but as by a miracle
The King saved and thirty of the ones present.
In place of the great one who will be condemned,
Outside the prison, his friend in his place:
The Trojan hope in six months joined, born dead,
The Sun in the urn rivers will be frozen.
The great Celtic Prelate suspected by the King,
By night in flight he will leave the realm:
Through a Duke fruitful for his great British King,
Byzantium to Cyprus and Tunis unsuspected.
At daybreak at the second crowing of the cock,
Those of Tunis, of Fez and of Bougie,
By the Arabs the King of Morocco captured,
The year sixteen hundred and seven, of the Liturgy.
By the appeased Duke in drawing up the contract,
Arabesque sail seen, sudden discovery:
Tripoli, Chios, and those of Trebizond,
Duke captured, the Black Sea and the city a desert.
The dreaded army of the Narbonne enemy
Will frighten very greatly the Hesperians:
Perpignan empty through the blind one of Arbon,
Then Barcelona by sea will take up the quarrel.
He who was well forward in the realm,
Having a red chief close to the hierarchy,
Harsh and cruel, and he will make himself much feared,
He will succeed to the sacred monarchy.
Between the two distant monarchs,
When the clear Sun is lost through Selin:
Great enmity between two indignant ones,
So that liberty is restored to the Isles and Siena.
The Lady in fury through rage of adultery,
She will come to conspire not to tell her Prince:
But soon will the blame be made known,
So that seventeen will be put to martyrdom.
The Prince outside his Celtic land
Will be betrayed, deceived by the interpreter:
Rouen, La Rochelle through those of Brittany
At the port of Blaye deceived by monk and priest.
The great carpet folded will not show
But by halved the greatest part of history:
Driven far out of the realm he will appear harsh,
So that everyone will come to believe in his warlike deed.
Too late both the flowers will be lost,
The serpent will not want to act against the law:
The forces of the Leaguers confounded by the French,
Savona, Albenga through Monaco great martyrdom.
The lady left alone in the realm
By the unique one extinguished first on the bed of honor:
Seven years will she be weeping in grief,
Then with great good fortune for the realm long life.
No peace agreed upon will be kept,
All the subscribers will act with deceit:
In peace and truce, land and sea in protest,
By Barcelona fleet seized with ingenuity.
Gray and brown in half-opened war,
By night they will be assaulted and pillaged:
The brown captured will pass through the lock,
His temple opened, two slipped in the plaster.
At the foundation of the new sect,
The bones of the great Roman will be found,
A sepulcher covered by marble will appear,
Earth to quake in April poorly buried.
Quite another one will attain to the great Empire,
Kindness distant more so happiness:
Ruled by one sprung not far from the brothel,
Realms to decay great bad luck.
When the soldiers in a seditious fury
Will cause steel to flash by night against their chief:
The enemy Alba acts with furious hand,
Then to vex Rome and seduce the principal ones.
The great pity will occur before long,
Those who gave will be obliged to take:
Naked, starving, withstanding cold and thirst,
To pass over the mountains committing a great scandal.
Chief of the world will the great Chyren be,
Plus Ultra behind, loved, feared, dreaded:
His fame and praise will go beyond the heavens,
And with the sole title of Victor will he be quite satisfied.
When they will come to give the last rites to the great King
Before he has entirely given up the ghost:
He who will come to grieve over him the least,
Through Lions, Eagles, cross crown sold.
Through feigned fury of divine emotion
The wife of the great one will be violated:
The judges wishing to condemn such a doctrine,
She is sacrificed a victim to the ignorant people.
In a great city a monk and artisan,
Lodged near the gate and walls,
Secret speaking emptily against Modena,
Betrayed for acting under the guise of nuptials.
She chased out will return to the realm,
Her enemies found to be conspirators:
More than ever her time will triumph,
Three and seventy to death very sure.
The great Pilot will be commissioned by the King,
To leave the fleet to fill a higher post:
Seven years after he will be in rebellion,
Venice will come to fear the Barbarian army.
The ancient city the creation of Antenor,
Being no longer able to bear the tyrant:
The feigned handle in the temple to cut a throat,
The people will come to put his followers to death.
Through the fraudulent victory of the deceived,
Two fleets one, German revolt:
The chief murdered and his son in the tent,
Florence and Imola pursued into Romania.
To proclaim the victory of the great expanding Selin:
By the Romans will the Eagle be demanded,
Pavia, Milan and Genoa will not consent thereto,
Then by themselves the great Lord claimed.
Near the Ticino the inhabitants of the Loire,
Garonne and Saône, the Seine, the Tain and Gironde:
They will erect a promontory beyond the mountains,
Conflict given, Po enlarged, submerged in the wave.
From Fez the realm will reach those of Europe,
Their city ablaze and the blade will cut:
The great one of Asia by land and sea with great troop,
So that blues and Pers[ians] the cross will pursue to death.
Tears, cries and laments, howls, terror,
Heart inhuman, cruel, black and chilly:
Lake of Geneva the Isles, of Genoa the notables,
Blood to pour out, wheat famine to none mercy.
Through the deserts of the free and wild place,
The nephew of the great Pontiff will come to wander:
Felled by seven with a heavy club,
By those who afterwards will occupy the Chalice.
He who will have so much honor and flattery
At his entry into Belgian Gaul:
A while after he will act very rudely,
And he will act very warlike against the flower.
The Lame One, he who lame could not reign in Sparta,
He will do much through seductive means:
So that by the short and long, he will be accused
Of making his perspective against the King.
The great city of Tarsus by the Gauls
Will be destroyed, all of the Turban captives:
Help by sea from the great one of Portugal,
First day of summer Urban's consecration.
The great Prelate one day after his dream,
Interpreted opposite to its meaning:
From Gascony a monk will come unexpectedly,
One who will cause the great prelate of Sens to be elected.
The election made in Frankfort
Will be voided, Milan will be opposed:
The follower closer will seem so very strong
That he will drive him out into the marshes beyond the Rhine.
A great realm will be left desolated,
Near the Ebro an assembly will be formed:
The Pyrenees mountains will console him,
When in May lands will be trembling.
Feet and hands bound between two boats,
Face anointed with honey, and sustained with milk:
Wasps and flies, paternal love vexed,
Cup-bearer to falsify, Chalice tried.
The stinking abominable disgrace,
After the deed he will be congratulated:
The great excuse for not being favorable,
That Neptune will not be persuaded to peace.
Of the leader of the naval war,
Red one unbridled, severe, horrible whim,
Captive escaped from the elder one in the bale,
When there will be born a son to the great Agrippa.
Prince of beauty so comely,
Around his head a plot, the second deed betrayed:
The city to the sword in dust the face burnt,
Through too great murder the head of the King hated.
The greedy prelate deceived by ambition,
He will come to reckon nothing too much for him:
He and his messengers completely trapped,
He who cut the wood sees all in reverse.
A King will be angry with the see-breakers,
When arms of war will be prohibited:
The poison tainted in the sugar for the strawberries,
Murdered by waters, dead, saying land, land.
Calumny against the cadet by the detractor,
When enormous and warlike deeds will take place:
The least part doubtful for the elder one,
And soon in the realm there will be partisan deeds.
Great city abandoned to the soldiers,
Never was mortal tumult so close to it:
Oh, what a hideous calamity draws near,
Except one offense nothing will be spared it.
At forty-five degrees the sky will burn,
Fire to approach the great new city:
In an instant a great scattered flame will leap up,
When one will want to demand proof of the Normans.
Ruin for the Volcae so very terrible with fear,
Their great city stained, pestilential deed:
To plunder Sun and Moon and to violate their temples:
And to redden the two rivers flowing with blood.
The learned enemy will find himself confused,
His great army sick, and defeated by ambushes,
The Pyrenees and Pennine Alps will be denied him,
Discovering near the river ancient jugs.
INCANTATION OF THE LAW AGAINST INEPT CRITICS
Let those who read this verse consider it profoundly,
Let the profane and the ignorant herd keep away:
And far away all Astrologers, Idiots and Barbarians,
May he who does otherwise be subject to the sacred rite.
The arc of the treasure deceived by Achilles,
the quadrangle known to the procreators.
The invention will be known by the Royal deed;
a corpse seen hanging in the sight of the populace.
Opened by Mars Arles will not give war,
the soldiers will be astonished by night.
Black and white concealing indigo on land
under the false shadow you will see traitors sounded.
After the naval victory of France,
the people of Barcelona the Saillinons and those of Marseilles;
the robber of gold, the anvil enclosed in the ball,
the people of Ptolon will be party to the fraud.
The Duke of Langres besieged at Dôle
accompanied by people from Autun and Lyons.
Geneva, Augsburg allied to those of Mirandola,
to cross the mountains against the people of Ancona.
Some of the wine on the table will be spilt,
the third will not have that which he claimed.
Twice descended from the black one of Parma,
Perouse will do to Pisa that which he believed.
Naples, Palerma and all of Sicily
will be uninhabited through Barbarian hands.
Corsica, Salerno and the island of Sardinia,
hunger, plague, war the end of extended evils.
Upon the struggle of the great light horses,
it will be claimed that the great crescent is destroyed.
To kill by night, in the mountains, 
dressed in shepherd’s' clothing, red gulfs in the deep ditch.
Florense, flee, flee the nearest Roman,
at Fiesole will be conflict given:
blood shed, the greatest one take by the hand,
neither temple nor sex will be pardoned.
The lady in the absence of her great master
will be begged for love by the Viceroy.
Feigned promise and misfortune in love,
in the hands of the great Prince of Bar.
By the great Prince bordering Le Mans,
brave and valiant leader of the great army;
by land and sea with Bretons and Normans,
to pass Gibraltar and Barcelona to pillage the island.
eye, feet wounded rude disobedient;
strange and very bitter news to the lady;
more than five hundred of here people will be killed.
The great younger son will make an end of the war,
he assembles the pardoned before the gods;
Cahors and Moissac will go far from the prison,
a refusal at Lectoure, the people of Agen shaved.
From the marine tributary city,
the shaven head will take up the satrapy;
to chase the sordid man who will the be against him.
For fourteen years he will hold the tyranny.
He will come to expose the false topography,
the urns of the tombs will be opened.
Sect and holy philosophy to thrive,
black for white and the new for the old.
Before the city of the Insubrian lands,
for seven years the siege will be laid;
a very great king enters it,
the city is then free, away from its enemies.
The deep entry made by the great Queen 
will make the place powerful and inaccessible;
the army of the three lions will be defeated
causing within a thing hideous and terrible.
The prince who has little pity of mercy
will come through death to change and become very knowledgeable.
The kingdom will be attended with great tranquillity,
when the great one will soon be fleeced.
The besieged will color their pacts,
but seven days later they will make a cruel exit:
thrown back inside, fire and blood, seven put to the ax
the lady who had woven the peace is a captive.
The fort at Nice will not engage in combat,
it will be overcome by shining metal.
This deed will be debated for a long time,
strange and fearful for the citizens.
Ambassadors of the Tuscan language 
will cross the Alps and the sea in April and May.
The man of the calf will deliver an oration, 
not coming to wipe out the French way of life.
By the pestilential enmity of Languedoc,
the tyrant dissimulated will be driven out.
The bargain will be made on the bridge at Sorgues
to put to death both him and his follower
The citizens of Mesopotamia
angry with their friends from Tarraconne;
games, rites, banquets, every person asleep,
the vicar at Rhône, the city taken and those of Ausonia.
The Royal scepter will be forced to take
that which his predecessors had pledged.
Because they do not understand about the ring
when they come to sack the palace.
He who was buried will come out of the tomb,
He will cause the fort of the bridge to be tied in chains:
Poisoned with the spawn of a pimp,
the great one from Lorraine by the Marquis du Pont.
Through long war all the army exhausted,
so that they do not find money for the soldiers;
instead of gold or silver, they will come to coin leather,
Gallic brass, and the crescent sign of the Moon.
Foists and galleys around seven ships,
a mortal war will be let loose.
The leader from Madrid will receive a wound from arrows,
two escaped and five brought to land.
At the wall of Vasto the great cavalry
are impeded by the baggage near Ferrara.
At Turin they will speedily commit such robbery 
that in the fort they will ravish their hostage.
The captain will lead a great herd
on the mountain closest to the enemy.
Surrounded by fire he makes such a way,
all escape except for thirty put on the spit.
The great one of Alba will come to rebel,
he will betray his great forebears.
The great man of Guise will come to vanquish him,
led captive with a monument erected.
The sack approaches, fire and great bloodshed.
Po the great rivers, the enterprise for the clowns;
after a long wait from Genoa and Nice,
Fossano, Turin the capture at Savigliano.
From Languedoc and Guienne more than ten
thousand will want to cross the Alps again.
The great Savoyards march against Brindisi,
Aquino and Bresse will come to drive them back.
From the bank of Montereale will be born one 
who bores and calculates becoming a tyrant.
To raise a force in the marches of Milan,
to drain Faenza and Florence of gold and men
The kingdom stripped of its forces by fraud,
the fleet blockaded, passages for the spy;
two false friends will come to rally 
to awaken hatred for a long time dormant.
The French nation will be in great grief,
vain and lighthearted, they will believe rash things.
No bread, salt, wine nor water, venom nor ale,
the greater one captured, hunger, cold and want.
The great fish will come to complain and weep
for having chosen, deceived concerning his age:
he will hardly want to remain with them,
he will be deceived by those speaking his own tongue.
God, the heavens, all the divine words in the waves,
carried by seven red-shaven heads to Byzantium:
against the anointed three hundred from Trebizond,
will make two laws, first horror then trust.
Ten sent to put the captain of the ship to death,
are altered by one that there is open revolt in the fleet.
Confusion, the leader and another stab and bite each other
at Lerins and the Hyerès, ships, prow into the darkness.
The elder royal one on a frisky horse
will spur so fiercely that it will bolt.
Mouth, mouthful, foot complaining in the embrace;
dragged, pulled, to die horribly.
The leader of the French army
will expect to lose the main phalanx.
Upon the pavement of oats and slate
the foreign nation will be undermined through Genoa.
Within casks anointed outside with oil and grease
twenty-one will be shut before the harbor,
at second watch; through death they will do great deeds;
to win the gates and be killed by the watch.
The bones of the feet and the hands locked up,
because of the noise the house is uninhabited for a long time.
Digging in dreams they will be unearthed,
the house healthy in inhabited without noise.
Two newly arrived have seized the poison,
to pour it in the kitchen of the great Prince.
By the scullion both are caught in the act,
taken he who thought to trouble the elder with death.
Pau, Nay, Loron will be more of fire than blood,
to swim in praise, the great one to flee to the confluence of rivers.
He will refuse entry to the magpies
Pampon and the Durance will keep them confined.
Condom and Auch and around Mirande,
I see fire from the sky which encompasses them.
Sun and Mars conjoined in Leo, then at Marmande,
lightning, great hail, a wall falls into the Garonne.
Within the strong castle of Vigilance and Resviers
the younger born of Nancy will be shut up.
In Turin the first ones will be burned,
when Lyons will be transported with grief.
The cock will be received into Monace, 
the Cardinal of France will appear;
He will be deceived by the Roman legation;
weakness to the eagle, strength will be born to the cock.
There will appear a shining ornate temple,
the lamp and the candle at Borne and Breteuil.
For the canton of Lucerne turned aside,
when one will see the great cock in his shroud.
Lighting and brightness are seen at Lyons shining,
Malta is taken, suddenly it will be extinguished.
Sardon, Maurice will act deceitfully,
Geneva to London, feigning treason towards the cock.
Vercelli, Milan will give the news,
the wound will be given at Pavia.
To run in the Seine, water, blood and fire through Florence,
the unique one falling from high to low calling for help.
Near Focia enclosed in some tuns
Chivasso will plot for the eagle.
The elected one driven out, he and his people shut up,
rape with Turin, the bride led away.
While the eagle is united with the cock at Savonna,
the Eastern Sea and Hungary.
The army at Naples, Palermo, the marches of Ancona,
Rome and Venice a great outcry by the Barbarian.
A great stench will come from Lausanne,
but they will not know its origin,
they will put out all people from distant places,
fire seen in the sky, a foreign nation defeated.
A multitude of people will appear at Vicenza
without force, fire to burn the Basilica.
Near Lunage the great one of Valenza defeated:
at a time when Venice takes up the quarrel through custom.
He will appear near to Buffalora
the highly born and tall one entered into Milan.
The Abbe of Foix with those of Saint-Meur 
will cause damage dressed up as serfs.
The crusader brother through impassioned love
will cause Bellerophon to die through Proteus;
the fleet for a thousand years, the maddened woman,
the potion drunk, both of them then die.
The great credit of gold and abundance of silver
will cause honor to be blinded by lust;
the offense of the adulterer will become known,
which will occur to his great dishonor.
Great exertions towards the North by a man-woman
to vex Europe and almost all the Universe.
The two eclipses will be put into such a rout
that they will reinforce life or death for the Hungarians.
At the place where HIERON has his ship built,
there will be such a great sudden flood,
that one will not have a place nor land to fall upon,
the waters mount to the Olympic Fesulan.
Those at ease will suddenly be cast down,
the world put into trouble by three brothers;
their enemies will seize the marine city,
hunger, fire, blood, plague, all evils doubled.
The cause of her death will be issued from Florence,
one time before drunk by young and old;
by the three lilies they will give her a great pause.
Save through her offspring as raw meat is dampened.
To support the great troubled Cappe;
the reds will march in order to clarify it;
a family will be almost overcome by death,
the red, red ones will knock down the red one.
The false message about the rigged election 
to run through the city stopping the broken pact;
voices bought, chapel stained with blood,
the empire contracted to another one.
Three foists will enter the port of Agde 
carrying the infection and pestilence, not the faith.
Passing the bridge they will carry off a million,
the bridge is broken by the resistance of a third.
Coursan, Narbonne through the salt to warn
Tuchan, the grace of Perpignan betrayed;
the red town will not wish to consent to it,
in a high flight, a copy flag and a life ended.
Letters are found in the queen's chests,
no signature and no name of the author.
The ruse will conceal the offers;
so that they do not know who the lover is.
The lieutenant at the door of the house,
will knock down the great man of Perpignan.
Thinking to save himself at Montpertuis,
the bastard of Lusignan will be deceived.
The heart of the lover, awakened by furtive love
will ravish the lady in the stream.
She will pretend bashfully to be half injured,
the father of each will deprive the body of its soul.
The bones of Cato found in Barcelona, 
placed, discovered, the site found again and ruined.
The great one who holds, but does not hold,
wants Pamplona, drizzle at the abbey of Montserrat.
The auxiliary way, one arch upon the other,
Le Muy deserted except for the brave one and his genet.
The writing of the Phoenix Emperor,
seen by him which is shown to no other.
The copies of gold and silver inflated,
which after the theft were thrown into the lake,
at the discovery that all is exhausted and dissipated by the debt.
All scrips and bonds will be wiped out.
At the fourth pillar which they dedicate to Saturn
split by earthquake and by flood;
under Saturn's building an urn is found
gold carried off by Caepio and then restored.
In Toulouse, not far from Beluzer 
making a deep pit a palace of spectacle,
the treasure found will come to vex everyone
in two places and near the Basacle.
The first great fruit of the prince of Perchiera,
then will come a cruel and wicked man.
In Venice he will lose his proud glory,
and is led into evil by then younger Selin.
French king, beware of your nephew
who will do so much that your only son
will be murdered while making his vows to Venus;
accompanied at night by three and six.
The great one who will be born of Verona and Vincenza
who carries a very unworthy surname;
he who at Venice will wish to take vengeance,
himself taken by a man of the watch and sign.
After the victory of the Lion over the Lion,
there will be great slaughter on the mountain of Jura;
floods and dark-colored people of the seventh  of a million ,
Lyons, Ulm at the mausoleum death and the tomb.
At the entrance to Garonne and Baise 
and the forest not far from Damazan,
discoveries of the frozen sea, then hail and north winds.
Frost in the Dardonnais through the mistake of the month.
It will be committed against the anointed brought
from Lons le Saulnier, Saint Aubin and Bell'oeuvre.
To pave with marble taken from distant towers,
not to resist Bletteram and his masterpiece.
The fortress near the Thames 
will fall when the king is locked up inside.
He will be seen in his shirt near the bridge,
one facing death then barred inside the fortress.
The King of Blois will reign in Avignon,
once again the people covered in blood.
In the Rhône he will make swim 
near the walls up to five, the last one near Nolle.
He who will have been for the Byzantine prince
will be taken away by the prince of Toulouse.
The faith of Foix through the leader of Tolentino
will fail him, not refusing the bride.
The blood of the Just for Taur and La Duarade
in order to avenge itself against the Saturnines.
They will immerse the band in the new lake,
then they will march against Alba.
a fox will be elected without speaking one word,
appearing saintly in public living on barley bread,
afterwards he will suddenly become a tyrant
putting his foot on the throats of the greatest men.
Through avarice, through force and violence
the chief of Orléans will come to vex his supporters.
Near St. Memire, assault and resistance.
Dead in his tent they will say he is asleep inside.
Through the fall of two bastard creatures
the nephew of the blood will occupy the throne.
Within Lectoure there will be blows of lances,
the nephew through fear will fold up his standard.
The natural offspring off Ogmios
will turn off the road from seven to nine.
To the king long friend of the half man,
Navarre must destroy the fort at Pau.
With his hand in a sling and his leg bandaged,
the younger brother of Calais will reach far.
At the word of the watch, the death will be delayed,
then he will bleed at Easter in the Temple.
Paul the celibate will die three leagues from Rome,
the two nearest flee the oppressed monster.
When Mars will take up his horrible throne,
the Cock and the Eagle, France and the three brothers.
Lake Trasimene will bear witness 
of the conspirators locked up inside Perugia.
A fool will imitate the wise one,
killing the Teutons, destroying and cutting to pieces.
.
Saturn in Cancer, Jupiter with Mars
in February Chaldondon'salva tierra.
Sierra Morena besieged on three sides
near Verbiesque, war and mortal conflict.
Saturn in Taurus, Jupiter in Aquarius. Mars in Sagittarius,
the sixth of February brings death.
Those of Tardaigne so great a breach at Bruges,
that the barbarian chief will die at Ponteroso.
The plague around Capellades,
another famine is near to Sagunto;
the knightly bastard of the good old man
will cause the great one of Tunis to lose his head.
The Byzantine makes an oblation 
after having taken back Cordoba.
A long rest on his road, the vines cut down,
at sea the passing prey captured by the Pillar.
---- Unfinished/Censored ----
The king of Blois to reign in Avignon,
from Amboise and Seme the length of the Indre:
claws at Poitiers holy wings ruined 
before Boni. . . .
Within Boulogne he will want to wash away his misdeeds,
he cannot at the temple of the Sun.
He will fly away, doing very great things:
In the hierarchy he had never an equal.
Under the color of the marriage treaty,
a magnanimous act by the Chyren Selin:
St. Quintin and Arras recovered on the journey;
By the Spanish a second butcher's bench is made.
He will find himself shut in between two rivers,
casks and barrels joined to cross beyond:
eight bridges broken, their chief run through so many times,
perfect children's throats slit by the knife.
The weak band will occupy the land,
those of high places will make dreadful cries.
The large herd of the outer corner troubled,
near Edinburgh it falls discovered by the writings.
From simple soldier he will attain to Empire,
from the short robe he will grow into the long.
Brave in arms, much worse towards the Church,
he vexes the priests as water fills a sponge.
A kingdom divided by two quarreling brothers
to take the arms and the name of Britain.
The Anglican title will be advised to watch out,
surprised by night  the other is , led to the French air.
Twice put up and twice cast down,
the East will also weaken the West.
Its adversary after several battles 
chased by sea will fail at time of need.
First in Gaul, first in Romania,
over land and sea against the English and Paris.
Marvelous deeds by that great troop,
violent, the wild beast will lose Lorraine.
Never by the revelation of daylight 
will he attain the mark of the scepter bearer.
Until all his sieges are at rest,
bringing to the Cock the gift of the armed legion.
When one sees the holy temple plundered,
the greatest of the Rhône profaning their sacred things;
because of them a very great pestilence will appear,
the king, unjust, will not condemn them.
When the adulterer wounded without a blow
will have murdered his wife and son out of spite;
his wife knocked down, he will strangle the child;
eight captives taken, choked beyond help.
The infants transported into the islands,
two out of seven will be in despair.
Those of the soil will be supported by it,
the name 'shovel' taken, the hope of the leagues fails.
The old man disappointed in his main hope,
will attain to the leadership of his Empire.
Twenty months he will hold rule with great force,
a tyrant, cruel, giving way to one worse.
When the inscription D.M. is found
in the ancient cave, revealed by a lamp.
Law, the King and Prince Ulpian tried,
the Queen and Duke in the pavilion under cover.
Paris, Carcassone, France to ruin in great disharmony,
neither one nor the other will be elected.
France will have the love and good will of the people,
Ferara, Colonna great protection.
The old Cardinal is deceived by the young one,
he will find himself disarmed, out of his position:
Do not show, Arles, that the double is perceived,
both Liqueduct and the Prince embalmed.
Beside the young one the old angel falls,
and will come to rise above him at the end;
ten years equal to most the old one falls again,
of three two and one, the eighth seraphim.
He will enter, wicked, unpleasant, infamous,
tyrannizing over Mesopotamia.
All friends made by the adulterous lady,
the land dreadful and black of aspect.
The number of astrologers will grow so great,
that they will be driven out, banned and their books censored.
In the year  by sacred assemblies
so that none will be safe from the holy ones.
Oh what a huge defeat on the Perugian battlefield 
and the conflict very close to Ravenna.
A holy passage when they will celebrate the feast,
the conqueror banished to eat horse meat.
The king is struck by a barbarian soldier,
unjustly, not far from death.
The greedy will be the cause of the deed,
conspirator and realm in great remorse.
A king entered very far into the new land
while the subjects will come to bid him welcome;
his treachery will have such a result
that to the citizens it is a reception instead of a festival.
The father and son will be murdered together,
the leader within his pavilion.
The mother at Tours will have her belly swollen with a son,
a verdure chest with little pieces of paper.
More of a butcher than a king in England,
born of obscure rank will gain empire through force.
Coward without faith, without law he will bleed the land;
His time approaches so close that I sigh.
The antichrist very soon annihilates the three,
twenty-seven years his war will last.
The unbelievers are dead, captive, exiled;
with blood, human bodies, water and red hail covering the earth.
A soldier of fortune with twisted tongue
will come to the sanctuary of the gods.
He will open the door to heretics
and raise up the Church militant.
He who loses his father by the sword, born in a Nunnery,
upon this Gorgon's blood will conceive anew;
in a strange land he will do everything to be silent,
he who will burn both himself and his child.
The blood of innocents, widow and virgin, 
so many evils committed by means of the Great Red One,
holy images placed over burning candles,
terrified by fear, none will be seen to move.
The new empire in desolation
will be changed from the Northern Pole.
From Sicily will come such trouble that
it will bother the enterprise tributary to Philip.
Thin tall and dry, playing the good valet
in the end will have nothing but his dismissal;
sharp poison and letters in his collar,
he will be seized escaping into danger.
The largest sail set out of the port of Zara,
near Byzantium will carry out its enterprise.
Loss of enemy and friend will not be,
a third will turn on both with great pillage and capture.
Paterno will hear the cry from Sicily,
all the preparations in the Gulf of Trieste;
it will be heard as far as Sicily
flee oh, flee, so may sails, the dreaded pestilence !
Between Bayonne and St. Jean de Luz
will be placed the promontory of Mars.
To the Hanix of the North, Nanar will remove the light,
then suffocate in bed without assistance.
Through Emani, Tolosa and Villefranche,
an infinite band through the mountains of Adrian.
Passes the river, Cambat over the plank for a bridge,
Bayonne will be entered all crying Bigoree.
A death conspired will come to its full effect,
the charge given and the voyage of death.
Elected, created, received  then  defeated by its followers,
in remorse the blood of innocence in front of him.
A noble king will come to Sardinia,
who will only rule for three years in the kingdom.
He will join with himself several colors;
he himself, after taunts, care spoils slumber.
In order not to fall into the hands of his uncle 
who slaughtered his children in order to reign.
Pleasing with the people, putting his foot on Peloncle,
dead and dragged between armored horses.
When those of the cross are found their senses troubled,
in place of sacred things he will see a horned bull,
through the virgin the pig's place will then be filled,
order will no longer be maintained by the king.
Entered among the field of the Rhône
where those of the cross are almost united,
the two lands meeting in Pisces 
and a great number punished by the flood.
Far distant from his kingdom, sent on a dangerous journey,
he will lead a great army and keep it for himself.
The king will hold his people captive and hostage,
he will plunder the whole country on his return.
For seven months, no longer, will he hold the office of prelate,
through his death a great schism will arise;
for seven months another acts as prelate near Venice,
peace and union are reborn.
In front of the lake where the dearest one was destroyed
for seven months and his army routed;
Spaniards will be devastating by means of Alba,
through delay in giving battle, loss.
The seducer will be placed in a ditch
and will be tied up for some time.
The scholar joins the chief with his cross.
The sharp right will draw the contented ones.
The sterile synagogue without any fruit,
will be received by the infidels,
the daughter of the persecuted man of Babylon,
miserable and sad, they will clip her wings.
At the end of the Var the great powers change;
near the bank three beautiful children are born.
Ruin to the people when they are of age;
in the country the kingdom is seen to grow and change more.
Of the church men the blood will be poured forth
as abundant as water in amount;
for a long time it will not be restrained,
woe, woe, for the clergy ruin and grief.
Through the power of three temporal kings,
the sacred seat will be put in another place,
where the substance of the body and the spirit
will be restored and received as the true seat.
By the great number of tears shed,
from top to bottom and from the bottom to the very top,
a life is lost through a game with too much faith,
to die of thirst through a great deficiency.
In the house of the translator of Bourg,
The letters will be found on the table,
One-eyed, red-haired, white, hoary-headed will hold the course,
Which will change for the new Constable.
From the top of the Aventine hill a voice heard,
Be gone, be gone all of you on both sides:
The anger will be appeased by the blood of the red ones,
From Rimini and Prato, the Colonna expelled.
The great cow at Racenna in great trouble,
Led by fifteen shut up at Fornase:
At Rome there will be born two double-headed monsters,
Blood, fire, flood, the greatest ones in space.
The following year discoveries through flood,
Two chiefs elected, the first one will not hold:
The refuge for the one of them fleeing a shadow,
The house of which will maintain the first one plundered.
The third toe will seem first
To a new monarch from low high,
He who will possess himself as a Tyrant of Pisa and Lucca,
To correct the fault of his predecessor.
An infinity of Englishmen in Guienne
Will settle under the name of Anglaquitaine:
In Languedoc, Ispalme, Bordelais,
Which they will name after Barboxitaine.
He who will open the tomb found,
And will come to close it promptly,
Evil will come to him, and one will be unable to prove,
If it would be better to be a Breton or Norman King.
The younger son made King will put his father to death,
After the conflict very dishonest death:
Inscription found, suspicion will bring remorse,
When the wolf driven out lies down ion the bedstead.
When the lamp burning with inextinguishable fire
Will be found in the temple of the Vestals:
Child found in fire, water passing through the sieve:
To perish in water Nîmes, Toulouse the markets to fall.
The child of a monk and nun exposed to death,
To die through a she-bear, and carried off by a boar,
The army will be camped by Foix and Pamiers,
Against Toulouse Carcassonne the harbinger to form.
Wrongly will they come to put the just one to death,
In public and in the middle extinguished:
So great a pestilence will come to arise in this place,
That the judges will be forced to flee.
So much silver of Diana and Mercury,
The images will be found in the lake:
The sculptor looking for new clay,
He and his followers will be steeped in gold.
The exiles around Sologne,
Led by night to march into Auxois,
Two of Modena for Bologna cruel,
Placed discovered by the fire of Buzanais.
Dyers' caldrons put on the flat surface,
Wine, honey and oil, and built over furnaces:
They will be immersed, innocent, pronounced malefactors,
Seven of Bordeaux smoke still in the cannon.
Near Perpignan the red ones detained,
Those of the middle completely ruined led far off:
Three cut in pieces, and five badly supported,
For the Lord and Prelate of Burgundy.
Out of Castelfranco will come the assembly,
The ambassador not agreeable will cause a schism:
Those of Riviera will be in the squabble,
And they will refuse entry to the great gulf.
The third one first does worse than Nero,
How much human blood to flow, valiant, be gone:
He will cause the furnace to be rebuilt,
Golden Age dead, new King great scandal.
The lily of the Dauphin will reach into Nancy,
As far as Flanders the Elector of the Empire:
New confinement for the great Montmorency,
Outside proven places delivered to celebrated punishment.
In the middle of the forest of Mayenne,
Lightning will fall, the Sun in Leo:
The great bastard issued from the great one Maine,
On this day a point will enter the blood of Fougères.
By night will come through the forest of Reines,
Two couples roundabout route Queen the white stone,
The monk king in gray in Varennes:
Elected Capet causes tempest, fire, blood, slice.
At the tall temple of Saint-Solenne at Blois,
Night Loire bridge, Prelate, King killing outright:
Crushing victory in the marshes of the pond,
Whence prelacy of whites miscarrying.
The King and his court in the place of cunning tongue,
Within the temple facing the palace:
In the garden the Duke of Mantua and Alba,
Alba and Mantua dagger tongue and palace.
The younger son playing outdoors under the arbor,
The top of the roof in the middle on his head,
The father King in the temple of Saint-Solonne,
Sacrificing he will consecrate festival smoke.
Upon the palace at the balcony of the windows,
The two little royal ones will be carried off:
To pass Orléans, Paris, abbey of Saint-Denis,
Nun, wicked ones to swallow green pits.
Crossing the bridges to come near the Roisiers,
Sooner than he thought, he arrived late.
The new Spaniards will come to Béziers, 
So that this chase will break the enterprise.
Departed by the bitter letters the surname of Nice,
The great Cappe will present something, not his own;
Near Voltai at the wall of the green columns,
After Piombino the wind in good earnest.
The forester, the wind will be close around the bridge,
Received highly, he will strike the Dauphin.
The old craftsman will pass through the woods in a company,
Going far beyond the right borders of the Duke.
The Allied fleet from the port of Marseilles,
In Venice harbor to march against Hungary.
To leave from the gulf and the bay of Illyria,
Devastation in Sicily, for the Ligurians, cannon shot.
When the man will give way to none,
Will wish to abandon a place taken, yet not taken;
Ship afire through the swamps, bitumen at Charlieu,
St. Quintin and Calais will be recaptured.
At the port of Pola and of San Nicolo,
A Normand will punish in the Gulf of Quarnero:
Capet to cry alas in the streets of Byzantium,
Help from Cadiz and the great Philip.
The tin island of St. George half sunk;
Drowsy with peace, war will arise,
At Easter in the temple abysses opened.
A deep column of fine porphyry is found,
Inscriptions of the Capitol under the base;
Bones, twisted hair, the Roman strength tried,
The fleet is stirred at the harbor of Mitylene.
Hercules King of Rome and of Annemark,
With the surname of the chief of triple Gaul,
Italy and the one of St. Mark to tremble,
First monarch renowned above all.
The single part afflicted will be mitered,
Return conflict to pass over the tile:
For five hundred one to betray will be titled
Narbonne and Salces we have oil for knives.
And fair Ferdinand will be detached,
To abandon the flower, to follow the Macedonian:
In the great pinch his course will fail,
And he will march against the Myrmidons.
A great King taken by the hands of a young man,
Not far from Easter confusion knife thrust:
Everlasting captive times what lightning on the top,
When three brothers will wound each other and murder.
Bridge and mills overturned in December,
The Garonne will rise to a very high place:
Walls, edifices, Toulouse overturned,
So that none will know his place like a matron.
The entry at Blaye for La Rochelle and the English,
The great Macedonian will pass beyond:
Not far from Agen will wait the Gaul,
Narbonne help beguiled through conversation.
In Albisola to Veront and Carcara,
Led by night to seize Savona:
The quick Gascon La Turbie and L'Escarène:
Behind the wall old and new palace to seize.
Near Saint-Quintin in the forest deceived,
In the Abbey the Flemish will be cut up:
The two younger sons half-stunned by blows,
The rest crushed and the guard all cut to pieces.
The great Chyren will seize Avignon,
From Rome letters in honey full of bitterness:
Letter and embassy to leave from Chanignon,
Carpentras taken by a black duke with a red feather.
From Barcelona, from Genoa and Venice,
From Sicily pestilence Monaco joined:
They will take their aim against the Barbarian fleet,
Barbarian driven 'way back as far as Tunis.
On the point of landing the Crusader army
Will be ambushed by the Ishmaelites,
Struck from all sides by the ship Impetuosity,
Rapidly attacked by ten elite galleys.
Leave, leave Geneva every last one of you,
Saturn will be converted from gold to iron,
Raypoz will exterminate all who oppose him,
Before the coming the sky will show signs.
None will remain to ask,
Great Mendosus will obtain his dominion:
Far from the court he will cause to be countermanded
Piedmont, Picardy, Paris, Tuscany the worst.
Be gone, flee from Toulouse ye red ones,
For the sacrifice to make expiation:
The chief cause of the evil under the shade of pumpkins:
Dead to strangle carnal prognostication.
The undersigned to an infamous deliverance,
And having contrary advice from the multitude:
Monarch changes put in danger over thought,
Shut up in a cage they will see each other face to face.
The great city of the maritime Ocean,
Surrounded by a crystalline swamp:
In the winter solstice and the spring,
It will be tried by frightful wind.
Ghent and Brussels will march against Antwerp,
The Senate of London will put to death their King:
Salt and wine will overthrow him,
To have them the realm turned upside down.
Mendosus will soon come to his high realm,
Putting behind a little the Lorrainers:
The pale red one, the male in the interregnum,
The fearful youth and Barbaric terror.
Against the red ones sects will conspire,
Fire, water, steel, rope through peace will weaken:
On the point of dying those who will plot,
Except one who above all the world will ruin.
Peace is nigh on one side, and war,
Never was the pursuit of it so great:
To bemoan men, women innocent blood on the land,
And this will be throughout all France.
The young Nero in the three chimneys
Will cause live pages to be thrown to burn:
Happy those who will be far away from such practices,
Three of his blood will have him ambushed to death.
There will arrive at Porto Corsini,
Near Ravenna, he who will plunder the lady:
In the deep sea legate from Lisbon,
Hidden under a rock they will carry off seventy souls.
The horrible war which is being prepared in the West,
The following year will come the pestilence
So very horrible that young, old, nor beast,
Blood, fire Mercury, Mars, Jupiter in France.
The army near Houdan will pass Goussainville,
And at Maiotes it will leave its mark:
In an instant more than a thousand will be converted,
Looking for the two to put them back in chain and firewood.
In the place of Drux a King will rest,
And will look for a law changing Anathema:
While the sky will thunder so very loudly,
New entry the King will kill himself.
On the left side at the spot of Vitry,
The three red ones of France will be awaited:
All felled red, black one not murdered,
By the Bretons restored to safety.
At La Ferté-Vidame he will seize,
Nicholas held red who had produced his life:
The great Louise who will act secretly one will be born,
Giving Burgundy to the Bretons through envy.
Conflict Barbarian in the black Headdress,
Blood shed, Dalmatia to tremble:
Great Ishmael will set up his promontory,
Frogs to tremble Lusitania aid.
The plunder made upon the marine coast,
In Cittanova and relatives brought forward:
Several of Malta through the deed of Messina
Will be closely confined poorly rewarded.
To the great one of Ceramon-agora,
The crusaders will all be attached by rank,
The long-lasting Opium and Mandrake,
The Raugon will be released on the third of October.
Complaints and tears, cries and great howls,
Near Narbonne at Bayonne and in Foix:
Oh, what horrible calamities and changes,
Before Mars has made several revolutions.
The Macedonian to pass the Pyrenees mountains,
In March Narbonne will not offer resistance:
By land and sea he will carry on very great intrigue,
Capetian having no land safe for residence.
He will come to go into the corner of Luna,
Where he will be captured and put in a strange land:
The unripe fruits will be the subject of great scandal,
Great blame, to one great praise.
There will be peace, union and change,
Estates, offices, low high and high very low:
To prepare a trip, the first offspring torment,
War to cease, civil process, debates.
From the height of the mountains around the Isère,
One hundred assembled at the haven in the rock Valence:
From Châteauneuf, Pierrelatte, in Donzère,
Against Crest, Romans, faith assembled.
The noble of Mount Aymar will be made obscure,
The evil will come at the junction of the Saône and Rhône:
Soldiers hidden in the woods on Lucy's day,
Never was there so horrible a throne.
One the mountain of Saint-Bel and L'Arbresle
The proud one of Grenoble will be hidden:
Beyond Lyons and Vienne on them a very great hail,
Lobster on the land not a third thereof will remain.
Sharp weapons hidden in the torches.
In Lyons, the day of the Sacrament,
Those of Vienne will all be cut to pieces,
By the Latin Cantons Mâcon does not lie.
At the holy places animals seen with hair,
With him who will not dare the day:
At Carcassonne propitious for disgrace,
He will be set for a more ample stay.
Again will the holy temples be polluted,
And plundered by the Senate of Toulouse:
Saturn two three cycles completed,
In April, May, people of new leaven.
The Blue Turban King entered into Foix,
And he will reign less than an evolution of Saturn:
The White Turban King Byzantium heart banished,
Sun, Mars and Mercury near Aquarius.
In the city of Fertsod homicide,
Deed, and deed many oxen plowing no sacrifice:
Return again to the honors of Artemis,
And to Vulcan bodies dead ones to bury.
From Ambracia and the country of Thrace
People by sea, evil and help from the Gauls:
In Provence the perpetual trace,
With vestiges of their custom and laws.
With the rapacious and blood-thirsty king,
Issued from the pallet of the inhuman Nero:
Between two rivers military hand left,
He will be murdered by Young Baldy.
The realm taken the King will conspire,
The lady taken to death ones sworn by lot:
They will refuse life to the Queen and son,
And the mistress at the fort of the wife.
The Greek lady of ugly beauty,
Made happy by countless suitors:
Transferred out to the Spanish realm,
Taken captive to die a miserable death.
The chief of the fleet through deceit and trickery
Will make the timid ones come out of their galleys:
Come out, murdered, the chief renouncer of chrism,
Then through ambush they will pay him his wages.
The Duke will want to exterminate his followers,
He will send the strongest ones to strange places:
Through tyranny to ruin Pisa and Lucca,
Then the Barbarians will gather the grapes without vine.
The crafty King will understand his snares,
Enemies to assail from three sides:
A strange number tears from hoods,
The grandeur of the translator will come to fail.
By the flood and fierce pestilence,
The great city for long besieged:
The sentry and guard dead by hand,
Sudden capture but none wronged.
Sun twentieth of Taurus the earth will tremble very mightily,
It will ruin the great theater filled:
To darken and trouble air, sky and land,
Then the infidel will call upon God and saints.
The King exposed will complete the slaughter,
After having discovered his origin:
Torrent to open the tomb of marble and lead,
Of a great Roman with Medusine device.
To pass Guienne, Languedoc and the Rhône,
From Agen holding Marmande and La Réole:
To open through faith the wall, Marseilles will hold its throne,
Conflict near Saint-Paul-de-Mausole.
From Bourg-la-Reine they will come straight to Chartres,
And near Pont d'Antony they will pause:
Seven crafty as Martens for peace,
Paris closed by an army they will enter.
In the forest cleared of the Tuft,
By the hermitage will be placed the temple:
The Duke of Étampes through the ruse he invented
Will teach a lesson to the prelate of Montlhéry.
Calais, Arras, help to Thérouanne,
Peace and semblance the spy will simulate:
The soldiery of Savoy to descend by Roanne,
People who would end the rout deterred.
For seven years fortune will favor Philip,
He will beat down again the exertions of the Arabs:
Then at his noon perplexing contrary affair,
Young Ogmios will destroy his stronghold.
A captain of Great Germany
Will come to deliver through false help
To the King of Kings the support of Pannonia,
So that his revolt will cause a great flow of blood.
The horrible plague Perinthus and Nicopolis,
The Peninsula and Macedonia will it fall upon:
It will devastate Thessaly and Amphipolis,
An unknown evil, and from Anthony refusal.
The King will want to enter the new city,
Through its enemies they will come to subdue it:
Captive free falsely to speak and act,
King to be outside, he will keep far from the enemy.
The enemies very far from the fort,
The bastion brought by wagons:
Above the walls of Bourges crumbled,
When Hercules the Macedonian will strike.
Weak galleys will be joined together,
False enemies the strongest on the rampart:
Weak ones assailed Bratislava trembles,
Lübeck and Meissen will take the barbarian side.
The newly made one will lead the army,
Almost cut off up to near the bank:
Help from the Milanais elite straining,
The Duke deprived of his eyes in Milan in an iron cage.
The army denied entry to the city,
The Duke will enter through persuasion:
The army led secretly to the weak gates,
They will put it to fire and sword, effusion of blood.
The forces of the sea divided into three parts,
The second one will run out of supplies,
In despair looking for the Elysian Fields,
The first ones to enter the breach will obtain the victory.
Those afflicted through the fault of a single one stained,
The transgressor in the opposite party:
He will send word to those of Lyons that compelled
They be to deliver the great chief of Molite.
The Aquilon Wind will cause the siege to be raised,
Over the walls to throw ashes, lime and dust:
Through rain afterwards, which will do them much worse,
Last help against their frontier.
Naval battle night will be overcome, 
Fire in the ships to the West ruin:
New trick, the great ship colored,
Anger to the vanquished, and victory in a drizzle.
To the enemy, the enemy faith promised
Will not be kept, the captives retained:
One near death captured, and the remainder in their shirts,
The remainder damned for being supported.
The ship's veil will hide the sail galley,
The great fleet will come the lesser one to go out:
Ten ships near will turn to drive it back,
The great one conquered the united ones to join to itself.
After that five will not put out the flock,
A fugitive for Penelon he will turn loose:
To murmur falsely then help to come,
The chief will then abandon the siege.
At midnight the leader of the army
Will save himself, suddenly vanished:
Seven years later his reputation unblemished,
To his return they will never say yes.
Albi and Castres will form a new league,
Nine Arians Lisbon and the Portuguese:
Carcassonne and Toulouse will end their intrigue,
When the chief new monster from the Lauraguais.
The Gardon will flood Nîmes so high
That they will believe Deucalion reborn:
Into the colossus the greater part will flee,
Vesta tomb fire to appear extinguished.
The great conflict that they are preparing for Nancy,
The Macedonian will say I subjugate all:
The British Isle in anxiety over wine and salt,
Hem. mi. Philip two Metz will not hold for long.
With forefinger and thumb he will moisten the forehead,
The Count of Senigallia to his own son:
The Venus through several of thin forehead,
Three in seven days wounded dead.
In the Castle of Figueras on a misty day
A sovereign prince will be born of an infamous woman:
Surname of breeches on the ground will make him posthumous,
Never was there a King so very bad in his province.
Stained with murder and enormous adulteries,
Great enemy of the entire human race:
One who will be worse than his grandfathers, uncles or fathers,
In steel, fire, waters, bloody and inhuman.
At the dangerous passage below Junquera,
The posthumous one will have his band cross:
To pass the Pyrenees mountains without his baggage,
From Perpignan the duke will hasten to Tende.
Elected Pope, as elected he will be mocked,
Suddenly unexpectedly moved prompt and timid:
Through too much goodness and kindness provoked to die,
Fear extinguished guides the night of his death.
Beneath the food of ruminating animals,
led by them to the belly of the fodder city:
Soldiers hidden, their arms making a noise,
Tried not far from the city of Antibes.
Urnel Vaucile without a purpose on his own,
Bold, timid, through fear overcome and captured:
Accompanied by several pale whores,
Convinced in the Carthusian convent at Barcelona.
Father duke old in years and choked by thirst,
On his last day his don denying him the jug:
Into the well plunged alive he will come up dead,
Senate to the thread death long and light.
Happy in the realm of France, happy in life,
Ignorant of blood, death, fury and plunder:
For a flattering name he will be envied,
A concealed King, too much faith in the kitchen.
The convict Queen seeing her daughter pale,
Because of a sorrow locked up in her breast:
Lamentable cries will come then from Angoulême,
And the marriage of the first cousin impeded.
The house of Lorraine will make way for Vendôme,
The high put low, and the low put high:
The son of Mammon will be elected in Rome,
And the two great ones will be put at a loss.
The day that she will be hailed as Queen,
The day after the benediction the prayer:
The reckoning is right and valid,
Once humble never was one so proud.
All the friend who will have belonged to the party,
For the rude in letters put to death and plundered:
Property up for sale at fixed price the great one annihilated.
Never were the Roman people so wronged.
Through the spite of the King supporting the lesser one,
He will be murdered presenting the jewels to him:
The father wishing to impress nobility on the son
Does as the Magi did of yore in Persia.
For not wishing to consent to the divorce,
Which then afterwards will be recognized as unworthy:
The King of the Isles will be driven out by force,
In his place put one who will have no mark of a king.
The remonstrances made to the ungrateful people,
Thereupon the army will seize Antibes:
The complaints will place Monace in the arch,
And at Fréjus the one will take the shore from the other
The captive prince conquered in Italy
Will pass Genoa by sea as far as Marseilles:
Through great exertion by the foreigners overcome,
Safe from gunshot, barrel of bee's liquor.
Through the Ebro to open the passage of Bisanne,
Very far away will the Tagus make a demonstration:
In Pelligouxe will the outrage be committed,
By the great lady seated in the orchestra.
The successor will avenge his brother-in-law,
To occupy the realm under the shadow of vengeance:
Obstacle slain his blood for the death blame,
For a long time will Brittany hold with France.
Through the fifth one and a great Hercules
They will come to open the temple by hand of war:
One Clement, Julius and Ascanius set back,
The sword, key, eagle, never was there such a great animosity.
Second and third which make prime music
By the King to be sublimated in honor:
Through the fat and the thin almost emaciated,
By the false report of Venus to be debased.
In a cave of Saint-Paul-de-Mausole a goat
Hidden and seized pulled out by the beard:
Led captive like a mastiff beast
By the Bigorre people brought to near Tarbes.
Nephew and blood of the new saint come,
Through the surname he will sustain arches and roof:
They will be driven out put to death chased nude,
Into red and black will they convert their green.
The Holy Empire will come into Germany,
The Ishmaelites will find open places:
The asses will want also Carmania,
The supporters all covered by earth.
The great empire, everyone would be of it,
One will come to obtain it over the others:
But his realm and state will be of short duration,
Two years will he be able to maintain himself on the sea.
The cruel faction in the long robe
Will come to hide under the sharp daggers:
The Duke to seize Florence and the diphthong place,
Its discovery by immature ones and sycophants.
The Gaul who will hold the empire through war,
He will be betrayed by his minor brother-in-law:
He will be drawn by a fierce, prancing horse,
The brother will be hated for the deed for a long time
The younger son of the king flagrant in burning lust
To enjoy his first cousin:
Female attire in the Temple of Artemis,
Going to be murdered by the unknown one of Maine.
Upon the King of the stump speaking of wars,
The United Isle will hold him in contempt:
For several good years one gnawing and pillaging,
Through tyranny in the isle esteem changing.
The great assembly near the Lake of Bourget,
They will meet near Montmélian:
Going beyond the thoughtful ones will draw up a plan,
Chambéry, Saint-Jean-de-Maurienne, Saint-Julien combat.
Sprightly love lays the siege not far,
The garrisons will be at the barbarian saint:
The Orsini and Adria will provide a guarantee for the Gauls,
For fear delivered by the army to the Grisons.
First son, widow, unfortunate marriage,
Without any children two Isles in discord:
Before eighteen, incompetent age,
For the other one the betrothal will take place while younger.
The young heir to the British realm,
Whom his dying father will have recommended:
The latter dead Lonole will dispute with him,
And from the son the realm demanded.
On the boundary of Caussade and Caylus,
Not at all far from the bottom of the valley:
Music from Villefranche to the sound of lutes,
Encompassed by cymbals and great stringing.
The humane realm of Anglican offspring,
It will cause its realm to hold to peace and union:
War half-captive in its enclosure,
For long will it cause them to maintain peace.
Too much good times, too much of royal goodness,
Ones made and unmade, quick, sudden, neglectful:
Lightly will he believe falsely of his loyal wife,
He put to death through his benevolence.
When a King will be against his people,
A native of Blois will subjugate the Ligurians,
Memel, Cordoba and the Dalmatians,
Of the seven then the shadow to the King, New Year’s money and ghosts.
The shadow of the realm of Navarre untrue,
It will make his life one of fate unlawful:
The vow made in Cambrai wavering,
King Orléans will give a lawful wall.
In life, fate and death a sordid, unworthy man of gold,
He will not be a new Elector of Saxony:
From Brunswick he will send for a sign of love,
The false seducer delivering it to the people.
At the Garland lady of the town of Burgos,
They will impose for the treason committed:
The great prelate of Leon through Formande,
Undone by false pilgrims and ravishers.
Banners of the deepest part of Spain,
Coming out from the tip and ends of Europe:
Troubles passing near the bridge of Laigne,
Its great army will be routed by a band.
Garden of the world near the new city,
In the path of the hollow mountains:
It will be seized and plunged into the Tub,
Forced to drink waters poisoned by sulfur.
The Meuse by day in the land of Luxembourg,
It will find Saturn and three in the urn:
Mountain and plain, town, city and borough,
Flood in Lorraine, betrayed by the great urn.
Some of the lowest places of the land of Lorraine
Will be united with the Low Germans:
Through those of the see Picards, Normans, those of Main,
And they will be joined to the cantons.
At the place where the Lys and the Scheldt unite,
The nuptials will be arranged for a long time:
At the place in Antwerp where they carry the chaff,
Young old age wife undefiled.
The three concubines will fight each other for a long time,
The greatest one the least will remain to watch:
The great Selin will no longer be her patron,
She will call him fire shield white route.
She born in this world of a furtive concubine,
At two raised high by the sad news:
She will be taken captive by her enemies,
And brought to Malines and Brussels.
The unfortunate nuptials will be celebrated
In great joy but the end unhappy:
Husband and mother will slight the daughter-in-law,
The Apollo dead and the daughter-in-law more pitiful.
The royal prelate his bowing too low,
A great flow of blood will come out of his mouth:
The Anglican realm a realm pulled out of danger,
For long dead as a stump alive in Tunis.
The uplifted one will not know his scepter,
He will disgrace the young children of the greatest ones:
Never was there a more filthy and cruel being,
For their wives the king will banish them to death.
In the time of mourning the feline monarch
Will make war upon the young Macedonian:
Gaul to shake, the bark to be in jeopardy,
Marseilles to be tried in the West a talk.
Within Lyons twenty-five of one mind,
Five citizens, Germans, Bressans, Latins:
Under a noble one they will lead a long train,
And discovered by barks of mastiffs.
I weep for Nice, Monaco, Pisa, Genoa,
Savona, Siena, Capua, Modena, Malta:
For the above blood and sword for a New Year's gift,
Fire, the earth will tremble, water an unhappy reluctance.
Betta, Vienna, Emorte, Sopron,
They will want to deliver Pannonia to the Barbarians:
Enormous violence through pike and fire,
The conspirators discovered by a matron.
Near Sorbia to assail Hungary,
The herald of Brudes dark ones? will come to warn them:
Byzantine chief, Salona of Slavonia,
He will come to convert them to the law of the Arabs.
Cydonia, Ragusa, the city of St. Jerome,
With healing help to grow green again:
The King's son dead because of the death of two heroes,
Araby and Hungary will take the same course.
Weep Milan, weep Lucca and Florence,
As your great Duke climbs into the chariot:
The see to change it advances to near Venice,
When at Rome the Colonna will change.
O vast Rome, thy ruin approaches,
Not of thy walls, of thy blood and substance:
The one harsh in letters will make a very horrible notch,
Pointed steel driven into all up to the hilt.
The chief of London through the realm of America,
The Isle of Scotland will be tried by frost:
King and Reb will face an Antichrist so false,
That he will place them in the conflict all together.
A very mighty trembling in the month of May,
Saturn in Capricorn, Jupiter and Mercury in Taurus:
Venus also, Cancer, Mars in Virgo,
Hail will fall larger than an egg.
The army of the sea will stand before the city,
Then it will leave without making a long passage:
A great flock of citizens will be seized on land,
Fleet to return to seize it great robbery.
The shining deed of the old one exalted anew,
Through the South and Aquilon they will be very great:
Raised by his own sister great crowds,
Fleeing, murdered in the thicket of Ambellon.
Through an object the eye will swell very much,
Burning so much that the snow will fall:
The fields watered will come to shrink,
As the primate succumbs at Reggio.
The earth and air will freeze a very great sea,
When they will come to venerate Thursday:
That which will be never was it so fair,
From the four parts they will come to honor it.
The year , seventh month,
From the sky will come a great King of Terror:
To bring back to life the great King of the Mongols,
Before and after Mars to reign by good luck.
The present time together with the past
Will be judged by the great Joker:
The world too late will be tired of him,
And through the clergy oath-taker disloyal.
The year of the great seventh number accomplished,
It will appear at the time of the games of slaughter:
Not far from the great millennial age,
When the buried will go out from their tombs.
Long awaited he will never return
In Europe, he will appear in Asia:
One of the league issued from the great Hermes,
And he will grow over all the Kings of the East.
The great Senate will ordain the triumph
For one who afterwards will be vanquished, driven out:
At the sound of the trumpet of his adherents there will be
Put up for sale their possessions, enemies expelled.
Thirty adherents of the order of Quirites
Banished, their possessions given their adversaries:
All their benefits will be taken as misdeeds,
Fleet dispersed, delivered to the Corsairs.
Sudden joy to sudden sadness,
It will occur at Rome for the graces embraced:
Grief, cries, tears, weeping, blood, excellent mirth,
Contrary bands surprised and trussed up.
The old roads will all be improved,
One will proceed on them to the modern Memphis:
The great Mercury of Hercules fleur-de-lis,
Causing to tremble lands, sea and country.
In the realm the great one of the great realm reigning,
Through force of arms the great gates of brass
He will cause to open, the King and Duke joining,
Fort demolished, ship to the bottom, day serene.
A treasure placed in a temple by Hesperian citizens,
Therein withdrawn to a secret place:
The hungry bonds to open the temple,
Retaken, ravished, a horrible prey in the midst.
Cries, weeping, tears will come with knives,
Seeming to flee, they will deliver a final attack,
Parks around to set up high platforms,
The living pushed back and murdered instantly.
The signal to give battle will not be given,
They will be obliged to go out of the park:
The banner around Ghent will be recognized,
Of him who will cause all his followers to be put to death.
The illegitimate girl so high, high, not low,
The late return will make the grieved ones contended:
The Reconciled One will not be without debates,
In employing and losing all his time.
The old tribune on the point of trembling,
He will be pressed not to deliver the captive:
The will, non-will, speaking the timid evil,
To deliver to his friends lawfully.
Like a griffin will come the King of Europe,
Accompanied by those of Aquilon:
He will lead a great troop of red ones and white ones,
And they will go against the King of Babylon.
A Great King will come to take port near Nice,
Thus the death of the great empire will be completed:
In Antibes will he place his heifer,
The plunder by sea all will vanish.
Foot and Horse at the second watch,
They will make an entry devastating all by sea:
Within the port of Marseilles he will enter,
Tears, cries, and blood, never times so bitter.
The walls will be converted from brick to marble,
Seven and fifty pacific years:
Joy to mortals, the aqueduct renewed,
Health, abundance of fruits, joy and mellifluous times.
A hundred times will the inhuman tyrant die,
In his place put one learned and mild,
The entire Senate will be under his hand,
He will be vexed by a rash scoundrel.
In the year , Roman clergy,
At the beginning of the year you will hold an election:
Of one gray and black issued from Campania,
Never was there one so wicked as he.
Before his father the child will be killed,
The father afterwards between ropes of rushes:
The people of Geneva will have exerted themselves,
The chief lying in the middle like a log.
The new bark will take trips,
There and near by they will transfer the Empire:
Beaucaire, Arles will retain the hostages,
Near by, two columns of Porphyry found.
Scorn from Nîmes, from Arles and Vienne,
Not to obey the Hesperian edict:
To the tormented to condemn the great one,
Six escaped in seraphic garb.
To the Spains will come a very powerful King,
By land and sea subjugating the South:
This evil will cause, lowering again the crescent,
Clipping the wings of those of Friday.
The Religion of the name of the seas will win out
Against the sect of the son of Adaluncatif:
The stubborn, lamented sect will be afraid
Of the two wounded by A and A.
Triremes full of captives of every age,
Good time for bad, the sweet for the bitter:
Prey to the Barbarians hasty they will be too soon,
Anxious to see the feather wail in the wind.
For the merry maid the bright splendor
Will shine no longer, for long will she be without salt:
With merchants, bullies, wolves odious,
All confusion universal monster.
The end of wolf, lion, ox and ass,
Timid deer they will be with mastiffs:
No longer will the sweet manna fall upon them,
More vigilance and watch for the mastiffs.
The great empire will be for England,
The all-powerful one for more than three hundred years:
Great forces to pass by sea and land,
The Lusitanians will not be satisfied thereby.
The  Who bare record of the word of God, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, and of all things that he saw.
Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein: for the time is at hand.
John to the seven churches which are in Asia: Grace be unto you, and peace, from him which is, and which was, and which is to come; and from the seven Spirits which are before his throne;
And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth. Unto him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in his own blood,
And hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father; to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.
Behold, he cometh with clouds; and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him: and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him. Even so, Amen.
I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, and which was, and which is to come, the Almighty.
I John, who also am your brother, and companion in tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle that is called Patmos, for the word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus Christ.
I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and heard behind me a great voice, as of a trumpet,
Saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last: and, What thou seest, write in a book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia; unto Ephesus, and unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamos, and unto Thyatira, and unto Sardis, and unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea.
And I turned to see the voice that spake with me. And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks;
And in the midst of the seven candlesticks one like unto the Son of man, clothed with a garment down to the foot, and girt about the paps with a golden girdle.
His head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow; and his eyes were as a flame of fire;
And his feet like unto fine brass, as if they burned in a furnace; and his voice as the sound of many waters.
And he had in his right hand seven stars: and out of his mouth went a sharp twoedged sword: and his countenance was as the sun shineth in his strength.
And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not; I am the first and the last:
I am he that liveth, and was dead; and, behold, I am alive for evermore, Amen; and have the keys of hell and of death.
Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter;
The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven golden candlesticks. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches: and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches.
Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus write; These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks;
I know thy works, and thy labour, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil: and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles, and are not, and hast found them liars:
And hast borne, and hast patience, and for my name's sake hast laboured, and hast not fainted.
Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love.
Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and do the first works; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent.
But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God.
And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna write; These things saith the first and the last, which was dead, and is alive;
I know thy works, and tribulation, and poverty, but thou art rich and I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews, and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan.
Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer: behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried; and ye shall have tribulation ten days: be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death.
And to the angel of the church in Pergamos write; These things saith he which hath the sharp sword with two edges;
I know thy works, and where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seat is: and thou holdest fast my name, and hast not denied my faith, even in those days wherein Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth.
But I have a few things against thee, because thou hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balac to cast a stumblingblock before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed unto idols, and to commit fornication.
So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine of the Nicolaitans, which thing I hate.
Repent; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna, and will give him a white stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it.
And unto the angel of the church in Thyatira write; These things saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and his feet are like fine brass;
I know thy works, and charity, and service, and faith, and thy patience, and thy works; and the last to be more than the first.
Notwithstanding I have a few things against thee, because thou sufferest that woman Jezebel, which calleth herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed unto idols.
And I gave her space to repent of her fornication; and she repented not.
Behold, I will cast her into a bed, and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation, except they repent of their deeds.
And I will kill her children with death; and all the churches shall know that I am he which searcheth the reins and hearts: and I will give unto every one of you according to your works.
But unto you I say, and unto the rest in Thyatira, as many as have not this doctrine, and which have not known the depths of Satan, as they speak; I will put upon you none other burden.
But that which ye have already hold fast till I come.
And he that overcometh, and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations:
And he shall rule them with a rod of iron; as the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivers: even as I received of my Father.
And I will give him the morning star.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.
And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write; These things saith he that hath the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars; I know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou livest, and art dead.
Be watchful, and strengthen the things which remain, that are ready to die: for I have not found thy works perfect before God.
Remember therefore how thou hast received and heard, and hold fast, and repent. If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come on thee as a thief, and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee.
Thou hast a few names even in Sardis which have not defiled their garments; and they shall walk with me in white: for they are worthy.
He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.
And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write; These things saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth, and no man shutteth; and shutteth, and no man openeth;
I know thy works: behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it: for thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name.
Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews, and are not, but do lie; behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee.
Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world, to try them that dwell upon the earth.
Behold, I come quickly: hold that fast which thou hast, that no man take thy crown.
Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go no more out: and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, which is new Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God: and I will write upon him my new name.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.
And unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write; These things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God;
I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot: I would thou wert cold or hot.
So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spue thee out of my mouth.
Because thou sayest, I am rich, and increased with goods, and have need of nothing; and knowest not that thou art wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked:
I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that thou mayest see.
As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten: be zealous therefore, and repent.
Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me.
To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I also overcame, and am set down with my Father in his throne.
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.
After this I looked, and, behold, a door was opened in heaven: and the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with me; which said, Come up hither, and I will shew thee things which must be hereafter.
And immediately I was in the spirit: and, behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne.
And he that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardine stone: and there was a rainbow round about the throne, in sight like unto an emerald.
And round about the throne were four and twenty seats: and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white raiment; and they had on their heads crowns of gold.
And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and voices: and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven Spirits of God.
And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal: and in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne, were four beasts full of eyes before and behind.
And the first beast was like a lion, and the second beast like a calf, and the third beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle.
And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him; and they were full of eyes within: and they rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come.
And when those beasts give glory and honour and thanks to him that sat on the throne, who liveth for ever and ever,
The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship him that liveth for ever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, saying,
Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honour and power: for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created.
And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the backside, sealed with seven seals.
And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof?
And no man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon.
And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon.
And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not: behold, the Lion of the tribe of Juda, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof.
And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb as it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.
And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne.
And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps, and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers of saints.
And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation;
And hast made us unto our God kings and priests: and we shall reign on the earth.
And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beasts and the elders: and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands;
Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing.
And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I saying, Blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, be unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever.
And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth for ever and ever.
And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard, as it were the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts saying, Come and see.
And I saw, and behold a white horse: and he that sat on him had a bow; and a crown was given unto him: and he went forth conquering, and to conquer.
And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast say, Come and see.
And there went out another horse that was red: and power was given to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another: and there was given unto him a great sword.
And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast say, Come and see. And I beheld, and lo a black horse; and he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand.
And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A measure of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny; and see thou hurt not the oil and the wine.
And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth beast say, Come and see.
And I looked, and behold a pale horse: and his name that sat on him was Death, and Hell followed with him. And power was given unto them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and with hunger, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth.
And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which they held:
And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?
And white robes were given unto every one of them; and it was said unto them, that they should rest yet for a little season, until their fellowservants also and their brethren, that should be killed as they were, should be fulfilled.
And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal, and, lo, there was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood;
And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty wind.
And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together; and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.
And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and every free man, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains;
And said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb:
For the great day of his wrath is come; and who shall be able to stand?
And after these things I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree.
And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal of the living God: and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels, to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea,
Saying, Hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads.
And I heard the number of them which were sealed: and there were sealed an hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel.
Of the tribe of Juda were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Reuben were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Gad were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Aser were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Nepthalim were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Manasses were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Levi were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Issachar were sealed twelve thousand.
Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Joseph were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Benjamin were sealed twelve thousand.
After this I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues, stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands;
And cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb.
And all the angels stood round about the throne, and about the elders and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their faces, and worshipped God,
Saying, Amen: Blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving, and honour, and power, and might, be unto our God for ever and ever. Amen.
And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these which are arrayed in white robes? and whence came they?
And I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest. And he said to me, These are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.
Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple: and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them.
They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat.
For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes.
And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour.
And I saw the seven angels which stood before God; and to them were given seven trumpets.
And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer; and there was given unto him much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne.
And the smoke of the incense, which came with the prayers of the saints, ascended up before God out of the angel's hand.
And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire of the altar, and cast it into the earth: and there were voices, and thunderings, and lightnings, and an earthquake.
And the seven angels which had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound.
The first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mingled with blood, and they were cast upon the earth: and the third part of trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.
And the second angel sounded, and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea: and the third part of the sea became blood;
And the third part of the creatures which were in the sea, and had life, died; and the third part of the ships were destroyed.
And the third angel sounded, and there fell a great star from heaven, burning as it were a lamp, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of waters;
And the name of the star is called Wormwood: and the third part of the waters became wormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.
And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was smitten, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars; so as the third part of them was darkened, and the day shone not for a third part of it, and the night likewise.
And I beheld, and heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to the inhabiters of the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels, which are yet to sound!
And the fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth: and to him was given the key of the bottomless pit.
And he opened the bottomless pit; and there arose a smoke out of the pit, as the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit.
And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth: and unto them was given power, as the scorpions of the earth have power.
And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree; but only those men which have not the seal of God in their foreheads.
And to them it was given that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months: and their torment was as the torment of a scorpion, when he striketh a man.
And in those days shall men seek death, and shall not find it; and shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them.
And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses prepared unto battle; and on their heads were as it were crowns like gold, and their faces were as the faces of men.
And they had hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were as the teeth of lions.
And they had breastplates, as it were breastplates of iron; and the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots of many horses running to battle.
And they had tails like unto scorpions, and there were stings in their tails: and their power was to hurt men five months.
And they had a king over them, which is the angel of the bottomless pit, whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abaddon, but in the Greek tongue hath his name Apollyon.
One woe is past; and, behold, there come two woes more hereafter.
And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is before God,
Saying to the sixth angel which had the trumpet, Loose the four angels which are bound in the great river Euphrates.
And the four angels were loosed, which were prepared for an hour, and a day, and a month, and a year, for to slay the third part of men.
And the number of the army of the horsemen were two hundred thousand thousand: and I heard the number of them.
And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and them that sat on them, having breastplates of fire, and of jacinth, and brimstone: and the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions; and out of their mouths issued fire and smoke and brimstone.
By these three was the third part of men killed, by the fire, and by the smoke, and by the brimstone, which issued out of their mouths.
For their power is in their mouth, and in their tails: for their tails were like unto serpents, and had heads, and with them they do hurt.
And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues yet repented not of the works of their hands, that they should not worship devils, and idols of gold, and silver, and brass, and stone, and of wood: which neither can see, nor hear, nor walk:
Neither repented they of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of their thefts.
And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed with a cloud: and a rainbow was upon his head, and his face was as it were the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire:
And he had in his hand a little book open: and he set his right foot upon the sea, and his left foot on the earth,
And cried with a loud voice, as when a lion roareth: and when he had cried, seven thunders uttered their voices.
And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was about to write: and I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Seal up those things which the seven thunders uttered, and write them not.
And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his hand to heaven,
And sware by him that liveth for ever and ever, who created heaven, and the things that therein are, and the earth, and the things that therein are, and the sea, and the things which are therein, that there should be time no longer:
But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin to sound, the mystery of God should be finished, as he hath declared to his servants the prophets.
And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again, and said, Go and take the little book which is open in the hand of the angel which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth.
And I went unto the angel, and said unto him, Give me the little book. And he said unto me, Take it, and eat it up; and it shall make thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth sweet as honey.
And I took the little book out of the angel's hand, and ate it up; and it was in my mouth sweet as honey: and as soon as I had eaten it, my belly was bitter.
And he said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before many peoples, and nations, and tongues, and kings.
And there was given me a reed like unto a rod: and the angel stood, saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and them that worship therein.
But the court which is without the temple leave out, and measure it not; for it is given unto the Gentiles: and the holy city shall they tread under foot forty and two months.
And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in sackcloth.
These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks standing before the God of the earth.
And if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth, and devoureth their enemies: and if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner be killed.
These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophecy: and have power over waters to turn them to blood, and to smite the earth with all plagues, as often as they will.
And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them, and shall overcome them, and kill them.
And their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified.
And they of the people and kindreds and tongues and nations shall see their dead bodies three days and an half, and shall not suffer their dead bodies to be put in graves.
And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and make merry, and shall send gifts one to another; because these two prophets tormented them that dwelt on the earth.
And after three days and an half the Spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon them which saw them.
And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Come up hither. And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and their enemies beheld them.
And the same hour was there a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and in the earthquake were slain of men seven thousand: and the remnant were affrighted, and gave glory to the God of heaven.
The second woe is past; and, behold, the third woe cometh quickly.
And the seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices in heaven, saying, The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reign for ever and ever.
And the four and twenty elders, which sat before God on their seats, fell upon their faces, and worshipped God,
Saying, We give thee thanks, O Lord God Almighty, which art, and wast, and art to come; because thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and hast reigned.
And the nations were angry, and thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and them that fear thy name, small and great; and shouldest destroy them which destroy the earth.
And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in his temple the ark of his testament: and there were lightnings, and voices, and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail.
And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars:
And she being with child cried, travailing in birth, and pained to be delivered.
And there appeared another wonder in heaven; and behold a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns upon his heads.
And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and did cast them to the earth: and the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered, for to devour her child as soon as it was born.
And she brought forth a man child, who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron: and her child was caught up unto God, and to his throne.
And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she hath a place prepared of God, that they should feed her there a thousand two hundred and threescore days.
And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels fought against the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels,
And prevailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven.
And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.
And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ: for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God day and night.
And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death.
Therefore rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time.
And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man child.
And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.
And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman, that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood.
And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth.
And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.
And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and saw a beast rise up out of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy.
And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard, and his feet were as the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion: and the dragon gave him his power, and his seat, and great authority.
And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his deadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered after the beast.
And they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast: and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? who is able to make war with him?
And there was given unto him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and power was given unto him to continue forty and two months.
And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven.
And it was given unto him to make war with the saints, and to overcome them: and power was given him over all kindreds, and tongues, and nations.
And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world.
If any man have an ear, let him hear.
He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity: he that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints.
And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth; and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon.
And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him, and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed.
And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men,
And deceiveth them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast; saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast, which had the wound by a sword, and did live.
And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed.
And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand, or in their foreheads:
And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name.
Here is wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is Six hundred threescore and six.
And I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on the mount Sion, and with him an hundred forty and four thousand, having his Father's name written in their foreheads.
And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of a great thunder: and I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps:
And they sung as it were a new song before the throne, and before the four beasts, and the elders: and no man could learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand, which were redeemed from the earth.
These are they which were not defiled with women; for they are virgins. These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth. These were redeemed from among men, being the firstfruits unto God and to the Lamb.
And in their mouth was found no guile: for they are without fault before the throne of God.
And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people,
Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.
And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or in his hand,
The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb:
And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever: and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.
Here is the patience of the saints: here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.
And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do follow them.
And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle.
And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and reap: for the time is come for thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth is ripe.
And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth; and the earth was reaped.
And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle.
And another angel came out from the altar, which had power over fire; and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle, saying, Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe.
And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great winepress of the wrath of God.
And the winepress was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the winepress, even unto the horse bridles, by the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs.
And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvellous, seven angels having the seven last plagues; for in them is filled up the wrath of God.
And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire: and them that had gotten the victory over the beast, and over his image, and over his mark, and over the number of his name, stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God.
And they sing the song of Moses the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvellous are thy works, Lord God Almighty; just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints.
Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? for thou only art holy: for all nations shall come and worship before thee; for thy judgments are made manifest.
And after that I looked, and, behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened:
And the seven angels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues, clothed in pure and white linen, and having their breasts girded with golden girdles.
And one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven golden vials full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and ever.
And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God, and from his power; and no man was able to enter into the temple, till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled.
And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven angels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth.
And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth; and there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image.
And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea; and it became as the blood of a dead man: and every living soul died in the sea.
And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and fountains of waters; and they became blood.
And I heard the angel of the waters say, Thou art righteous, O Lord, which art, and wast, and shalt be, because thou hast judged thus.
For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink; for they are worthy.
And I heard another out of the altar say, Even so, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous are thy judgments.
And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun; and power was given unto him to scorch men with fire.
And men were scorched with great heat, and blasphemed the name of God, which hath power over these plagues: and they repented not to give him glory.
And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast; and his kingdom was full of darkness; and they gnawed their tongues for pain,
And blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and repented not of their deeds.
And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates; and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared.
And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet.
For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.
Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth, and keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see his shame.
And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon.
And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; and there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, It is done.
And there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings; and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake, and so great.
And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell: and great Babylon came in remembrance before God, to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.
And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.
And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, every stone about the weight of a talent: and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exceeding great.
And there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials, and talked with me, saying unto me, Come hither; I will shew unto thee the judgment of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters:
With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication.
So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness: and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.
And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication:
And upon her forehead was a name written, MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.
And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus: and when I saw her, I wondered with great admiration.
And the angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I will tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carrieth her, which hath the seven heads and ten horns.
The beast that thou sawest was, and is not; and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit, and go into perdition: and they that dwell on the earth shall wonder, whose names were not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast that was, and is not, and yet is.
And here is the mind which hath wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains, on which the woman sitteth.
And there are seven kings: five are fallen, and one is, and the other is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a short space.
And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and is of the seven, and goeth into perdition.
And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings, which have received no kingdom as yet; but receive power as kings one hour with the beast.
These have one mind, and shall give their power and strength unto the beast.
These shall make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them: for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings: and they that are with him are called, and chosen, and faithful.
And he saith unto me, The waters which thou sawest, where the whore sitteth, are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues.
And the ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast, these shall hate the whore, and shall make her desolate and naked, and shall eat her flesh, and burn her with fire.
For God hath put in their hearts to fulfil his will, and to agree, and give their kingdom unto the beast, until the words of God shall be fulfilled.
And the woman which thou sawest is that great city, which reigneth over the kings of the earth.
And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven, having great power; and the earth was lightened with his glory.
And he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils, and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird.
For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies.
And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues.
For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities.
Reward her even as she rewarded you, and double unto her double according to her works: in the cup which she hath filled fill to her double.
How much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, so much torment and sorrow give her: for she saith in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow.
Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning, and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire: for strong is the Lord God who judgeth her.
And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornication and lived deliciously with her, shall bewail her, and lament for her, when they shall see the smoke of her burning,
Standing afar off for the fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas, that great city Babylon, that mighty city! for in one hour is thy judgment come.
And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more:
The merchandise of gold, and silver, and precious stones, and of pearls, and fine linen, and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all thyine wood, and all manner vessels of ivory, and all manner vessels of most precious wood, and of brass, and iron, and marble,
And cinnamon, and odours, and ointments, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and wheat, and beasts, and sheep, and horses, and chariots, and slaves, and souls of men.
And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from thee, and all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from thee, and thou shalt find them no more at all.
The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her, shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing,
And saying, Alas, alas, that great city, that was clothed in fine linen, and purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold, and precious stones, and pearls!
For in one hour so great riches is come to nought. And every shipmaster, and all the company in ships, and sailors, and as many as trade by sea, stood afar off,
And cried when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like unto this great city!
And they cast dust on their heads, and cried, weeping and wailing, saying, Alas, alas, that great city, wherein were made rich all that had ships in the sea by reason of her costliness! for in one hour is she made desolate.
Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets; for God hath avenged you on her.
And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone, and cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city Babylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all.
And the voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and trumpeters, shall be heard no more at all in thee; and no craftsman, of whatsoever craft he be, shall be found any more in thee; and the sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in thee;
And the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee; and the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no more at all in thee: for thy merchants were the great men of the earth; for by thy sorceries were all nations deceived.
And in her was found the blood of prophets, and of saints, and of all that were slain upon the earth.
And after these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven, saying, Alleluia; Salvation, and glory, and honour, and power, unto the Lord our God:
For true and righteous are his judgments: for he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand.
And again they said, Alleluia. And her smoke rose up for ever and ever.
And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and worshipped God that sat on the throne, saying, Amen; Alleluia.
And a voice came out of the throne, saying, Praise our God, all ye his servants, and ye that fear him, both small and great.
And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying, Alleluia: for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth.
Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honour to him: for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready.
And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white: for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints.
And he saith unto me, Write, Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These are the true sayings of God.
And I fell at his feet to worship him. And he said unto me, See thou do it not: I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth judge and make war.
His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself.
And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his name is called The Word of God.
And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.
And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations: and he shall rule them with a rod of iron: and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.
And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.
And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God;
That ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and great.
And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse, and against his army.
And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that had received the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped his image. These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.
And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth: and all the fowls were filled with their flesh.
And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand.
And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the Devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years,
And cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled: and after that he must be loosed a little season.
And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them: and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus, and for the word of God, and which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads, or in their hands; and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years.
But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection.
Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection: on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.
And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison,
And shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle: the number of whom is as the sand of the sea.
And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and compassed the camp of the saints about, and the beloved city: and fire came down from God out of heaven, and devoured them.
And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever.
And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away; and there was found no place for them.
And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works.
And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them: and they were judged every man according to their works.
And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death.
And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire.
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea.
And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God.
And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away.
And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful.
And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely.
He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son.
But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the second death.
And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had the seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me, saying, Come hither, I will shew thee the bride, the Lamb's wife.
And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain, and shewed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God,
Having the glory of God: and her light was like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal;
And had a wall great and high, and had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel:
On the east three gates; on the north three gates; on the south three gates; and on the west three gates.
And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.
And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the city, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof.
And the city lieth foursquare, and the length is as large as the breadth: and he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand furlongs. The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal.
And he measured the wall thereof, an hundred and forty and four cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of the angel.
And the building of the wall of it was of jasper: and the city was pure gold, like unto clear glass.
And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with all manner of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth, an emerald;
The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, a chrysoprasus; the eleventh, a jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst.
And the twelve gates were twelve pearls; every several gate was of one pearl: and the street of the city was pure gold, as it were transparent glass.
And I saw no temple therein: for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it.
And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine in it: for the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof.
And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it: and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honour into it.
And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day: for there shall be no night there.
And they shall bring the glory and honour of the nations into it.
And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life.
And he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.
In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.
And there shall be no more curse: but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him:
And they shall see his face; and his name shall be in their foreheads.
And there shall be no night there; and they need no candle, neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light: and they shall reign for ever and ever.
And he said unto me, These sayings are faithful and true: and the Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to shew unto his servants the things which must shortly be done.
Behold, I come quickly: blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book.
And I John saw these things, and heard them. And when I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which shewed me these things.
Then saith he unto me, See thou do it not: for I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this book: worship God.
And he saith unto me, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of this book: for the time is at hand.
He that is unjust, let him be unjust still: and he which is filthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is righteous, let him be righteous still: and he that is holy, let him be holy still.
And, behold, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to give every man according as his work shall be.
I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last.
Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city.
For without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie.
I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright and morning star.
And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say, Come. And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely.
For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book:
And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book.
He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly. Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus.
The Egyptian Book of the Dead contains the oldest 
known religious writings in the world. As it comes to 
us it is mainly Osirian, but the Osirian group of gods 
was the latest of all the divine dynasties, although 
these, as shown at Abydos by Prof. Flinders Petrie, 
will account for some ten thousand years of time in 
Egypt. The antiquity of the collection is not to be 
judged by the age of the coffins in which the papyrus 
rolls were found. Amongst other criteria of length in 
time the absence of Amen, Maut, and Khunsu 
supplies a gauge. The presence and importance of 
Turn affords another, whilst the persistence of Apt 
and her son Sebek-Horus tells a tale of times 
incalculably remote. 
As a key to the mysteries and the method of the 
book it must be understood at starting that the 
eschatology or doctrine of Last Things was founded in 
the mould of the mythology, and that the one can only 
be unravelled by means of the other. Moreover, there 
is plenty of evidence to prove that the Ritual was 
based on the mythology, and not the mythology upon 
the Ritual. The serpent, of darkness, was the evil 
reptile in mythology. In theology it becomes the 
deluder of mankind. Here the beginning was with 
darkness itself, which was the deceiver from the first. 
The serpent, being a figure of darkness, was continued 
by theology as the official adversary of souls in the 
eschatological domain. The eschatology of the Ritual, 
then, can only be comprehended by means of the 
mythology. And it is the mythos out of view that has 
made the Ritual so profoundly difficult to understand. 
Reading it may be compared with a dance seen by a 
deaf man who does not hear the music to which the 
motion is timed, and who has no clue to the characters 
being performed in the dumb drama. You cannot 
understand what they are doing and saying as Manes in 
another world without knowing what was thought 
and said by human beings in this concerning that 
representation of the nature powers, the gods and 
goddesses, which constitutes mythology. 
Amenta is a huge fossil formation crowded with the 
dead forms of a past life in which the horny 
conspectuities of learned ignorance will only see dead 
shells for a modern museum. As a rule, Egypt is always 
treated differently from the rest of the world. No 
Egyptologist has ever dreamed that the Ritual still 
exists under the disguise of both the gnostic and 
canonical gospels, or that it was the fountain-head and 
source of all the books of wisdom claimed to be 
divine. In the mythology — that is, in the primitive 
mode of rendering the phenomena of external nature 
— Osiris as light— giver in the moon was torn in 
fourteen pieces during the latter half of the lunation 
by the evil Sut, the opposing power of darkness. He 
was put together again and reconstituted by his son, 
beloved Horus, the young solar god. This 
representation could not have been made until it was 
known that the lunar light was replenished monthly 
from the solar source. Then Horus as the sun god and 
the vanquisher of Sut, the power of darkness, could be 
called the reconstituter of Osiris in the moon. In that 
way a foundation was laid in natural fact according to 
the science of mythology, and a mystery bequeathed 
to the eschatology which is doctrinal. For as it had 
been with the dismembered, mutilated god in the 
mythos, so it is with the Osiris deceased, who has to 
be reconstructed for a future life and put together bit 
by bit as a spiritual body in one of the great mysteries 
of Amenta. In the mythos Har— Makhu was the solar 
god of both horizons, or the double equinox, who 
represented the sun of today that rose up from the 
nether world as conqueror of darkness to join the west 
and east together on the Mount of Glory, as the 
connecting link of continuity in time betwixt 
yesterday and tomorrow. The type was continued in 
the eschatology, when Har-Makhu became the Horus 
of the greater mysteries, Horus of the religious legend 
who suffered, died, and was buried in Amenta, and 
who rose again from ,the dead like the winter sun, as 
Horus in spirit, lifting aloft the insignia of his 
sovereignty. This was he who made the pathway, not 
merely betwixt the two horizons, but to eternal life, as 
son of Ra, the holy spirit in the eschatology. The 
intermediate link in the mythos, which connects the 
solar orb with yesterday, is now the intermediary 
betwixt the two worlds and two lives in time and 
eternity. This is he who exclaims, I am the link! I am 
the everlasting one! I am Horus who steppeth 
onwards through eternity. Rit., ch. 42. This was he 
who, in the words of the gnostic Paul, broke down 
the wall of partition and made both one, that he 
might create in himself one new man and reconcile 
them both in one body, even as the double Horus, 
Har-Sam-Taui, was made one when blended and 
established as one person in another mystery of 
Amenta Rit., ch. 42. 
The mythology repeated in the Ritual is mainly 
solar and Osirian, but with glimpses of the lunar and 
the stellar mythos from the beginning. For example, 
Apt the ancient genetrix, as goddess of the Great Bear 
constellation, and leader of the heavenly host, was the 
kindler of the starry sparks by night in the mythology. 
In the eschatology she is continued as the mistress of 
divine protections for the soul, and she who had been 
the kindler of the lights in the darkness of night was 
now propitiated as rekindler of life from the spark in 
the dark of death Rit., ch. 137B. Ra in the mythos is 
the solar god represented by the sun in heaven, and in 
the eschatology he became the god in spirit who is 
called the holy spirit and first person in the trinity 
which consisted of Atum the father god, Horus the 
son, and Ra the holy spirit; the three that were also 
one in the Osirian cult, first as three forms of the solar 
god and next as three forms of the god in spirit. It is 
thus we are enabled to trace the formation of the 
Egyptian eschatology in the mould of the mythology. 
There is no death in the Osirian religion, only decay 
and change, and periodic renewal; only evolution and 
transformation in the domain of matter and the 
transubstantiation into spirit. In the so-called death of 
Osiris it is rebirth, not death, exactly the same as in 
the changes of external nature. At the close of day the 
solar orb went down and left the sun god staring 
blankly in the dark of death. Taht the moon god met 
him in Amenta with the eye of Horus as the light that 
was to illuminate the darkness of the subterranean 
world. In the annual rendering on the third day light 
was generated by renewal in the moon. Thus Osiris 
rose again, and a doctrine of the resurrection on the 
third day was bequeathed to the eschatology. The sun 
in sinking was buried as a body or mummy in the 
nether world of Amenta. When rising again at dawn it 
was transformed into a soul, a supreme elemental soul, 
that preceded the god in spirit. This was in the 
mythology. In the eschatology the same types were 
reapplied to the human soul, which was imaged in the 
flesh as the inarticulate, blind, and impubescent 
Horus, who died bodily but was preserved in mummy 
form to make his transformation into the luminous 
Sahu, when he rose again in glory as Horus the divine 
adult. I am the resurrection and the life is the perfect 
interpretation of an Egyptian picture that was copied 
by Denon at Philae. {Egypt, vol. ii., pl.No. p. 54- 
Lundy, fig. 183. Divine Horus is portrayed in the act 
of raising the deceased Osiris from the bier by 
presenting to him the Ankh sign of life. He was the 
life in person who performed the resurrection, and 
therefore is the resurrection and the life. As such he 
simply stands for a soul considered to be the divine 
offspring of god the father, not for any historical 
character that makes preposterous pretensions to 
possess miraculous power. Previously he had been the 
resurrection and the life as solar vivifier in the physical 
domain, or otherwise stated in the mythology. It was 
this difference betwixt the mythology and eschatology 
that constituted the lesser and the greater mysteries. 
The lesser in their origin were partly sociological. They 
were the customs and the ceremonial rites of 
totemism. The greater mysteries are eschatological and 
religious. For instance, the transformation of the youth 
into the adult or the girl into a woman in the totemic 
mysteries was applied doctrinally to the 
transformation of the soul in the mysteries of Amenta. 
With the more primitive races, such as the Arunta of 
Australia, the mysteries remain chiefly totemic and 
sociological, though interfused with the religious 
sentiment. The greater mysteries were perfected in the 
Egyptian religion, to be read of in the Ritual as the 
mysteries of Amenta. 
From the beginning to the end of the written Ritual 
we shall find it is based upon the mythical 
representation which was primary.The mythical 
representation was first applied to the phenomena of 
external nature, and this mode of representation was 
continued and re-applied to the human soul in the 
eschatology. Egyptian myths, then, are not inventions 
made to explain the Ritual. Totemic representation 
was earlier. This mode was continued in the 
mythology. Ritual arose from the rendering becoming 
religious in the phase of eschatology, and did not 
originate as an explanation of mythology and 
totemism. But not until the different phases are 
discriminated can the Ritual be read, that which has 
been founded on it under-stood, or the mental status 
of the thinkers ascertained. In the mythology the solar 
god, who in his primary form was Ptah Khepr, is the 
maker of a complete circle for the sun as founder and 
opener of the nether earth, this solar pathway being a 
figure of for ever, a type of the eternal working in 
time. In the eschatology the god in spirit who is Ra the 
holy spirit is the god who has created or opened out 
eternity Rit., ch. 15. The one is on the physical basis, 
the other on the spiritual plane. In the mythology the 
seven primordial powers that pass through various 
phases, elemental, stellar , or lunar, always in a group 
of seven, finally become the seven souls of Ra, who 
attained supremacy as the sun god in mythology and 
also as the holy spirit. Thence came the doctrine of the 
seven souls in man, as seven gifts of the holy spirit in 
the eschatology. In the mythical representation Sothis 
on New Year's Day was the bringer forth of the child 
that was mothered by Hathor or Isis. The type is 
employed in the eschatology of the Ritual when the 
Manes in Amenta prays for rebirth as a pure spirit and 
says, May I live  or rise up and go forth from  
between the closed knees of Sothis. The rebirth of 
the child in Sothis was the renewal of the year, Sothis 
being represented in the feminine character by Hathor 
as the bringer forth from betwixt her knees or, as 
elsewhere rendered, her kheptu, i.e., her thighs. So the 
Manes are reborn from between the thighs of Nut in 
the mysteries of Amenta, and here the visible 
birthplace of spirits perfected is localized in Sothis, the 
opener of the year and bringer of the babe to birth 
upon the horizon or the mount of glory. In this way 
the skies of night were made luminous with starry lore 
that was mythical in the astronomy and the words of a 
divine wisdom in the later eschatology when the 
mysteries were represented in Amenta. Instead of 
flashlights showing pictures on the housetops of a city 
after dark, the stars were used by the Egyptians to 
illustrate the mysteries that were out of sight. The 
triumph of Horus over Sut or over the Apap dragon of 
drought and darkness was illustrated in the stellar 
mythos when in the annual round Orion rose and the 
Scorpion constellation set upon the opposite horizon. 
The Egyptian nearing death could lie and look upon a 
future figured in the starry heavens.As it was with 
Osiris or Horus so would it be with him. The way had 
been mapped out, the guiding stars were visible. His 
bier or coffin of new birth could be seen in the  
mesken of the mother. He rose again in spirit as the 
babe of Sothis. He joined the company of the holy 
Sahus in Orion with the pilot Horus at the look-out 
of the bark. He saw the golden isles in a heaven of 
perpetual peace to which the pole was the eternal 
mooring post. Whilst he was passing from this life the 
bark of Ra was making ready for his soul to go on 
board. 
The foundation of Amenta itself has yet to be 
delineated. It is a tangible threshold to the other 
world, the secret but solid earth of eternity which was 
opened up by Ptah when he and his seven Khnemmu 
erected the Tat pillar that was founded in the winter 
solstice as the figure of a stability that was to be 
eternal. In the mythos the Tat is a type of the sun in 
the winter solstice that has the power of returning 
from the lowest depth and thus completing the 
eternal road. In the eschatology it is the god in person 
as Ptah-Sekeri or Osiris, the backbone and support of 
the universe. Horus erecting the Tat in Sekhem was 
raising Osiris from the sepulchre, the father re— erected 
as the son in the typical resurrection and continuity of 
the human spirit in the after life. The figure of Amsu— 
Horus rising in the resurrection or coming forth, 
with member erect, has two characters, one in the 
mythology, one in the eschatology. In the mythology  
he images the phallus of the sun and the generative 
force that fecundates the Mother-earth. In the 
eschatology the image of erection is repeated as a 
symbol of resurrection, and in this phase the supposed 
phallic god, the figure of regenerative force, is typical 
of the resurrection or re— erection of the mortal in 
spirit. 
Horus the child with finger to mouth is portrayed 
in the sign of the Scales at the autumn equinox, the 
point at which the sun begins to lessen and become 
impotent. This the Egyptians termed the little sun, 
which when personified was infant Horus, who sank 
down into Hades as the suffering sun to die in the 
winter solstice and be transformed to rise again and 
return in all his glory and power in the equinox at 
Easter. This was matter of the solar mythos, also of life 
in vegetation and in the water of the inundation. In 
the eschatology Horus the child is typical of the 
human soul which was incarnated in the blood of Isis, 
the immaculate virgin, to be made flesh and to be 
born in mortal guise on earth as the son of Seb, and to 
suffer all the afflictions of mortality. He descended to 
Amenta as the soul sinking in the dark of death, and as 
the soul he was transfigured, changed, and glorified, to 
rise again and become immortal as a spirit perfected 
according to the teachings in the eschatology. A brief  
list will show how certain zootypes that were founded 
in the mythological representation were continued in 
the eschatology : 
Type of power Mythical Eschatological 
= The sun as = The god as self- 
The beetle 
transformer evolver 
The serpent = Renewal = Eternal life 
The ibis = Messenger = Word or logos 
The jackal = Seer in the dark = Guide in death 
The heifer =The moon =Virgin mother 
The hawk = Soul of the sun = Ra the divine spirit 
Fish,calf,or = Youthful solar 
=The messiah 
lamb god re-born 
In the mythology the Apap reptile lies in the Lake 
of Darkness, where the sun goes down, as the eternal 
adversary of the light with which it is at war all night 
and all the winter through. He seeks to bar the way of 
the sun in the nether world. In the eschatology it is the 
human soul instead of the sun that has to struggle with  
the opposing monster in making the passage of 
Amenta. The same scenery served, as already shown, 
to illustrate the mystery in a religious and spiritual 
phase. 
Chapter of the Ritual is known to have been 
extant in the time of King Septi, of the first dynasty, 
the Usaiphais of Manetho. That was over 6,years 
ago. It is a chapter from the Book of Life to be recited 
on coming forth to day, that one may not be kept 
back on the path of the Tuat, whether on entering or 
in coming forth; for taking all the forms which one 
desireth, and that the person may not die a second 
time. If this chapter be known, the person is made 
triumphant on earth as in the nether world, and he 
performeth all things which are done by the living. 
The chapter was then so ancient that it had been lost 
sight of, and was discovered on a plinth of the god of 
the Hennu or Sekru bark, by a master builder in the 
time of King Septi the Victorious. When this chapter 
was composed the primary nature powers had been 
unified in the one god, who was represented as the 
lord of two faces, who seeth by his own light, the 
Lord of Resurrections, who commeth forth from the 
dusk, and whose birth is from the House of Death. 
That is, as the solar god who was Atum on one 
horizon and Horus on the other; hence the lord of two  
faces. The supreme god thus described is the father in 
one character, the son in the other. The Manes 
speaking in the character of the son says of the father, 
He is I, and I am he. At that time the earth had been 
tunnelled by Ptah and his pigmy workers, and a spirit 
world created on the new terra firnia in the earth of 
eternity, over which the solar god effused his radiance 
nightly when he lighted up the Tuat with his 
indescribable glories ch. 15. The Lord of 
Resurrections as a solar god had then become the lord 
of resurrections as the generator of ever— living souls. 
Egyptian theology, then, was based upon the 
mythology which preceded it and supplied the mould. 
So is it with the Hebrew and Christian theology. But 
here is the difference betwixt them. The mythology 
remained extant in Egypt, so that the beginnings of the 
theology could be known and tested, and were known 
to the mystery teachers, and the origins referred to for 
the purpose of verification. The commentary which 
has been partially incorporated with the text of 
chapter survives to show the development of the 
theology from mythology and the need of explanations 
for the Ritual to be understood; and it was these 
necessary explanations which constituted the gnosis or 
wisdom of the  mystery teachers of the secret word, 
whereas the Hebrew and Christian theologies have  
been accepted minus the necessary knowledge of the 
origins, the means of applying the comparative 
method and checking false assumptions. In 
Christianity the mysteries have been manufactured 
out of mist, and it has been taken for granted that the 
mist was impenetrable and never to be seen through, 
whereas the mysteries of the Ritual can be followed in 
the two phases of mythology and eschatology. The 
main difference betwixt the mythos and the 
eschatology is that the one is represented in the earth 
of time, the other in the earth of eternity. And if we 
take the doctrine of a resurrection from the dead, the 
soul that rose again at first, in mythology, was a soul of 
the returning light, a soul of life in vegetation, or other 
of the elemental powers; a soul in external nature. For 
instance, a soul of life, as source of drink, was 
apprehended in the element of water, seen also in the 
plant and figured in the fish. The superhuman type 
was divinized in Horus.A soul of life, as source of 
breath, was apprehended in the breeze, and imaged as 
the panting of a lion. The superhuman type was 
divinized in Shu. A soul of food was apprehended in 
the earth, and represented by the goose that laid the 
egg. The superhuman type was divinized in Seb. 
In the Masonic and all other known mysteries, 
ancient or modern, the initiate has his eyes bandaged  
so that he may enter the reception room blindfold. 
This figure, in the Egyptian mysteries, is Horus in the 
dark, sometimes called the blind Horus, An— ar— ef. In 
the mythos Horus is the sun in the darkness of 
Amenta and the depths of the winter solstice. He is 
the prototype of blind Orion hungering for the morn, 
and of Samson eyeless in Gaza. The character was 
founded in the mythical representation of natural 
phenomena, and was afterwards continued in the 
eschatology. The same type serves in the two 
categories of phenomena which are here distinguished 
as the mythical and the eschatological. In the latter the 
sightless Horus images the human soul in the darkness 
of death, where it is blind from lack of outer vision. 
This duality may serve to explain the two-fold 
rendering of the eyes. According to the hieroglyphic 
imagery, Horus is without eyes or sightless in one 
character. He is also portrayed in another as the prince 
of sight, or of double sight. This, according to the 
mythos, is a figure of the risen sun and of dawn upon 
the coffin— lid of Osiris in Amenta. In the eschatology 
it is Horus, lord of the two eyes, or double vision-that 
is, of second sight-the seer in spirit with the beatific 
vision which was attained by him in death. The 
change from one character to the other is represented 
in the mysteries by the unbandaging of the initiate's 
eyes, which are intentionally dazzled by the glory of 
the lights.The Egyptian Book of the Dead is the one 
sole record of this two-fold basis of the mysteries. 
Enough has now been cited to show the method of 
the Ritual and the mode in which the eschatology of 
the Egyptian religion was founded in the mould of the 
pre-extant mythology. The Book of the Dead is the 
Egyptian book of life. It is the pre-Christian word of 
God. This we learn from the account which it gives of 
itself. It is attributed to Ra as the inspiring holy spirit. 
Ra was the father in heaven, who has the title of Huhi, 
the eternal, from which we derive the Hebrew name 
of Ihuh. The word was given by God the father to the 
ever— coming son as manifestor for the father. This was 
Horus, who as the coming son is lu-sa or lu-su, and, as 
the prince of peace, lu-em-hetep. Horus the son is the 
Word in person. Hence the speaker in the character of 
Horus says, I utter his words - the words of Ra - to 
the men of the present generation, and I repeat his 
words to him who is deprived of breath ch. 38. That 
is, as Horus, the sayer or logos, who utters the words 
of Ra the father in heaven to the living on earth, and 
to the breathless Manes in Amenta when he descends 
into Hades or the later hell to preach to the spirits in 
prison. The word or the sayings thus originated with 
Ra the father in heaven. They were uttered by Horus  
the son, and when written down in hieroglyphics by 
the fingers of Taht— Aan for human guidance they 
supplied a basis for the Book of the Dead. It had been 
ordained by Ra that his words, such as those that bring 
about  the resurrection and the glory Rit., ch. I , 
should be written down by the divine scribe Taht- 
Aan, to make the word truth, and to effect the 
triumph of Osiris against his adversaries; and it is 
proclaimed in the opening chapter that this mandate 
has been obeyed by Taht. The Ritual purports to 
contain the gnosis of salvation from the second death, 
together with the ways and means of attaining eternal 
life, as these were acted in the drama of the Osirian 
mysteries. Hence the Osiris says that freedom from 
perdition can be assured by means of this book, in 
which he trusts and by which he steadfastly abides. 
The object of the words of power, the magical 
invocations, the funeral ceremonies, the purgatorial 
trials, is the resurrection of the mortal to the life 
which is everlasting. The opening chapter is described 
as the  words which bring about the resurrection on 
the Mount of Glory, and the closing chapters show the 
deceased upon the summit of attainment. He has 
joined the lords of eternity in the circle of Osiris, and 
in the likeness of his own human self, the very figure 
which he had on earth, but changed and glorified ch.  
78. Therefore the most exact and comprehensive 
title for the Book of the Dead now put together in chapters would be The Ritual of the Resurrection, 
The book of the divine words written down by Taht 
are in the keeping of Horus the son, who is addressed 
as  him who sees the father. The Manes comes to 
him with his copy of the writings, by means of which 
he prevails on his journey through Amenta, like 
Pilgrim with his roll. He exclaims: O thou great seer 
who beholdest his father! O keeper of the books of 
Taht! Here am I glorified and filled with soul and 
power, and provided with the writings of Taht, the 
secrets of which are divine for lightening the darkness 
of the nether earth Rit: ch. . With these the Manes 
is accoutred and equipped. The Word of god 
personified in Horus preceded the written word of 
god and when the words of power were written down 
by Taht the scribe of truth, they were assigned to 
Horus as the logia of the Lord, and preserved as the 
precious records of him who was the word in person; 
first the word of power as the founder, then the word 
in truth or made truth, as the fulfiller. The divine 
words when written constituted the scriptures, earliest 
of which are those ascribed to Hermes or Taht, the 
reputed author of all the sacred writings. And now we 
find that both the word in person and the written  
word, together with the doctrine of the word 
according to the ancient wisdom, are more or less 
extant and living still in the Egyptian Book of the 
Dead. The magical words of power when written 
down by Taht became the nucleus of the Ritual, 
which is late in comparison with the astronomical 
mythology and other forms of Sign-language, and 
belongs mainly to the Osirian religion. 
The mystical word of power from the first was 
female. Apt at Ombos was worshipped as the the 
Living Word. The supreme type of this power borne 
upon the head of Shu is the hinder part of a lioness, 
her sign of sexual potency. The thigh or khepsh of Apt 
is also the typical Ur-heka, and it is a symbol of the 
great magical power. The Ur-heka or magical sign 
preceded words, and words preceded the writings. 
Great magical words of power are ascribed to Isis, 
whose word of power in the human sphere was 
personified in Horus the child, her word that issued 
out of silence. This is the word that wvas made flesh 
in a mortal likeness, the soul derived from blood. 
Child-Horus, however, manifests in divers 
phenomena as the Word— of— Power emaned by Isis, in 
the water, in vegetation, in food, and lastly in the 
virgin mother's blood. The first Horus was the Word— 
of-Power, the second is the Word-made-Truth in  
Horus, Mat, t-Kheru, by doing it. Horus the Word- 
of-Power was the founder, who was followed by 
Horus the Fulfiller.This title does not merely mean the 
Word of Truth, the True Logos Celsus, or the True 
Voice Plutarch, but denotes the Word-made-Truth 
or Law by Horus the Victorious, the father's own 
anointed son, who fulfilled the Word of Power. It is 
Horus the Word-of-Power personalized as a little 
child who survives as the miraculous worker two or 
three years old in the apocryphal gospels. He is 
credited with doing these infantine marvels as the 
Word-of-Power in person. He also utters the word of 
power in performing his amazing miracles. 
The magical words were orally communicated in 
the mysteries from mouth to ear, not written to be 
read. They were to be gotten by heart. In the Book of 
the Dead memory is restored to the deceased through 
the words of power that were stored up in life to be 
remembered in death. The speaker in chapter says: 
O thou who restorest memory in the mouth of the 
dead through the words of power which they possess, 
let my mouth be opened through the words of power 
which I possess. That is, by virtue of the gnosis, 
memory was restored by the deceased remembering 
the divine words. Now, Plato taught that a knowledge 
of past lives in a human pre-existence was restored to  
persons in this life by means of memory. The origin of 
the doctrine is undoubtedly Egyptian, but it was made 
out by a perversion of the original teaching. This 
restoration of or through memory occurs to the Manes 
in Amenta after death, and the things remembered 
appertain to the past life on earth. Plato has 
misapplied it to the past lives and pre-existence of 
human beings dwelling on the earth. The words of 
power were not only spoken. They were likewise 
represented in the equipment of the mummy, 
sometimes called its ornaments, such as the word of 
salvation by the blood of Isis with the red Tet-buckle, 
the word of durability by the white stone, the word of 
resurrection by the scarabaeus, the word of eternal life 
by the cross, called the ankh. These were forms of the 
magical words expressed in fetish figures. 
The Manes in Amenta begins his course where he 
left off on earth when his mouth was closed in death; 
it is opened once more for him by Ptah and Turn, and 
Taht supplies him with the great magical words of 
power that open every gate. These were written on 
the roll of papyrus that is carried in his hand by the 
pilgrim who makes his progress through the nether 
regions in the subterranean pathway of the sun. The 
so-called Book of the Dead, then, here quoted as the 
Ritual for the sake of brevity, is the Egyptian book of  
life: life now, life hereafter, everlasting life. It was 
indeed the book of life and salvation, because it 
contained the things to be done in the life here and 
hereafter to ensure eternal continuity Rit., ch. 
hymn 3. The departing soul when passing away in 
death, or, as the truer phrase is, when setting into the 
land of life, clasps and clings to his roll for very life. As 
the book of life, or word of salvation, it was buried in 
the coffin with the dead when done with on earth. It 
showed the way to heaven objectively as well as 
subjectively, as heaven was mapped out in the astral 
mythos. The Manes enters Amenta with a papyrus roll 
in his hand corresponding to the one that was buried 
in his coffin. This contains the written word of truth, 
the word of magical power, the word of life. The great 
question now for him is how far he has made the 
word of god Osiris truth and established it against 
the powers of evil in his lifetime on the earth. The 
word that he carries with him was written by Taht- 
Aan, the scribe of truth. Another word has been 
written in his lifetime by himself, and the record will 
meet him in the Hall of Justice on the day of weighing 
words, when Taht will read the record of the life to 
see how far it tallies with the written word and how 
far he has fulfilled the word in truth to earn eternal 
life. The sense of sin and abhorrence of injustice must  
have been peculiarly keen when it was taught that 
every word as well as deed was weighed in the balance 
of truth on the day of reckoning, called the Judgment 
Day. The questions confronting the Manes on entering 
Amenta are whether he has laid sufficient hold of life 
to live again in death? Has he acquired consistency and 
strength or truth of character enough to persist in 
some other more permanent form of personality? Has 
he sufficient force to incorporate his soul anew and 
germinate and grow and burst the mummy bandages 
in the glorified body of the Sahu? Is he a true 
mummy? Is the backbone sound? Is his heart in the 
right place? Has he planted for eternity in the seed- 
field of time? Has he made the word of Osiris, the 
word that was written in the papyrus roll, truth 
against his enemies? 
The chapters for opening the Tuat, for dealing with 
the adversary in the nether world, for issuing forth 
victoriously and thus winning the crown of triumph, 
for removing displeasure from the heart of the judge, 
tend to show the ways of attaining the life everlasting 
by acquiring possession of an eternal soul. The Manes 
is said to be made safe for the place of rebirth in Annu 
by means of the books of Taht's divine words, which 
contain the gnosis or knowledge of the things to be 
done on earth and in Amenta. The truth is made  
known by the words of Horus which were written 
down by Taht in the Ritual, but the fulfilment 
depends on the Manes making the word truth by 
doing it. That is the only way of salvation or of safety 
for the soul, the only mode of becoming a true being 
who would endure as pure spirit forever. The 
Egyptians had no vicarious atonement, no imputed 
righteousness, no second-hand salvation. No initiate in 
the Osirian mysteries could possibly have rested his 
hope of reaching heaven on the Galilean line to glory. 
His was the more crucial way of Amenta, which the 
Manes had to tread with the guidance of the word, 
that step by step and act by act he must himself make 
true. It is said in the rubrical directions of chapter that the Manes who knew it on earth and had it 
written on his coffin will be able to go in and out by 
day under any form he chooses in which he can 
penetrate his dwelling-place and also make his way to 
the Aarru fields of peace and plenty, where he will be 
flourishing for ever even as he was on earth Rit., 
II. I f chapter is known, the Manes takes the form 
of a fully-equipped spirit a Khu in the nether world, 
and is not imprisoned at any door in Amenta either 
going in or coming out. Chapter is the one that 
opens the tomb to the soul and to the shade of a 
person, that he may come forth to day and have the  
mastery over his feet. The book of giving sustenance 
to the spirit of the deceased in the under-world 
delivers the person from all evil things Rit., 148. 
There was another book wherewith the spirits 
acquired strength by knowing the names of the gods of 
the southern sky and of the northern sky chs. 141—3. 
The Ritual was pre-eminently a book of knowledge or 
of wisdom, because it contained the gnosis of the 
mysteries. Knowledge was all-important. The Manes 
make their passage through Amenta by means of what 
they know. Deceased in one of his supplications says: 
O thou ship of the garden Aarru, let me be conveyed 
to that bread of thy canal, as my father the great one 
who advanceth in the divine ship, because I know thee 
ch. Renouf. He knew because, as we see by ch. 9, he had learned the names of every part of the 
bark in which the spirits sailed. Knowledge was 
power, knowledge was the gnosis, and the gnosis was 
the science of the mystery teachers and the masters of 
Sign-language. Ignorance was most dire and deadly. 
How could one travel in the next world any more 
than in this without knowing the way? The way in 
Amenta was indicated topographically very much in 
keeping with the ways in Egypt, chief of which was 
the water-way of the great river. Directions, names,  
and passwords were furnished in writing, to be placed 
with the mummy of the deceased. Better still, if these 
instructions and divine teachings were learned by 
heart, had been enacted and the word made truth in 
the life, then the Book of the Dead if life became the 
book of life in death. The word was given that it 
might be made truth by doing it as the means of 
learning the way by knowing the word. The way of 
life in three worlds, those of earth, Amenta, and 
heaven, was by knowing the word of god and making 
it true in defiance of all the powers of evil. According 
to this earlier Bible, death came into the world by 
ignorance, not by knowledge, as in the Christian 
travesty of the Egyptian teaching. As Hermes says: 
The wickedness of a soul is ignorance. The virtue of a 
soul is knowledge [Divine Pymander, B. iv., .There was no life for the soul except in knowing, 
and no salvation but in doing, the truth. The human 
soul of Neferuben in the picture is the wise or 
instructed soul, one of the Khu-Akaru : he is a master 
of the gnosis, a knower or knowing soul, and therefore 
not to be caught like an ignorant fish in the net. 
Knowledge is of the first importance. In all his 
journeyings and difficulties it is necessary for the 
deceased to know. It is by knowledge that he is lighted 
to find his way in the dark. Knowledge is his lamp of  
light and his compass; to possess knowledge is to be 
master of divine powers and magical words. Ignorance 
would leave him a prey to all sorts of liers in wait and 
cunning enemies. He triumphs continually through his 
knowledge of the way, like a traveller with his chart 
and previous acquaintanceship with the local language; 
hence the need of the gnosis and of initiation in the 
mysteries. Those who knew the real name of the god 
were in possession of the word that represented 
power over the divinity, therefore the word of power 
that would be efficacious if employed. Instead of 
calling on the name of god in prayer, they made use of 
the name as the word of god. And as these words and 
mysteries of magic were contained in the writings, it 
was necessary to know the writings in which the 
gnosis was religiously preserved to be in possession of 
the words of power. Hence the phrases of great 
magical efficacy in the Ritual are called the words 
that compel. They compel the favourable action of 
the super-human power to which appeal is made. To 
make magic was to act the appeal in a language of 
signs which, like the words, were also intended to 
compel, and to act thus magically was a mode of 
compelling, forcing, and binding the superhuman 
powers. Magic was also a mode of covenanting with 
the power apprehended in the elements.The quid pro  
quo being blood, this was a most primitive form of 
blood-covenant. Giving blood for food was giving life 
for the means of living. 
The Ritual opens with a resurrection, but this is the 
resurrection in the earth of Amenta, not in the heaven 
of eternity. It is the resurrection of a body-soul 
emerging in the similitude of the moon— god from the 
dark of death. The first words of the Ritual are, O 
Bull of Amenta [Osiris], it is Taht, the everlasting king, 
who is here!. He has come as one of the powers that 
fight to secure the triumph of Osiris over all his 
adversaries. After the life on earth there was a 
resurrection in Amenta, the earth of eternity, for the 
human soul evolved on earth. I t was there that the 
claim to the resurrection in spirit and to life eternal in 
heaven had to be made good and established by long 
and painful experiences and many kinds of purgatorial 
purification, by which the soul was perfected 
eventually as an ever-living spirit. The word of 
promise had to be performed and made truth indeed, 
for the Ma— Kheru of immortality to be earned and 
endless continuity of life assured. Everyone who died 
was in possession of a body-soul that passed into 
Amenta to become an Osiris or an image of the god in 
matter, although it was not every one who was reborn 
or regenerated in the likeness of Ra, to attain the  
Horushood, which was portrayed as the hood of the 
divine hawk. Emergence in Amenta was the coming 
forth of the human soul from the coffin and from the 
gloom of the grave in some form of personality such as 
is depicted in the Shade, or the Ba, a bird of soul with 
the human head, which shows that a human soul is 
signified. Osiris the god of Amenta in a mummy form 
is thus addressed by the Osiris N. or Manes: O 
breathless one, let me live and be saved after death 
ch. 41. This is addressed to Osiris who lives eternally. 
Though lying as a mummy in Amenta, breathless and 
without motion, he will be self-resuscitated to rise 
again. Salvation is renewal for another life; to be saved 
is not to suffer the second death, not to die a second 
time. According to Egyptian thought, the saved are the 
living and the twice dead are the damned. Life after 
death is salvation of the soul, and those not saved are 
those who die the second death - a fate that could not 
be escaped by any false belief in the merits of Horus 
or the efficacy of the atoning blood. There was no 
heaven to be secured for them by proxy. 
The Ritual is not a book of beautiful sentiments, 
like the poetic literature of later times. It is a record of 
the things done by the dramatis personae in the 
Karaite mysteries. But now and again the beauty of 
feeling breaks out ineffably upon the face of it, as in 
the chapter by which the deceased prevails over his 
adversaries, the powers of darkness, and comes forth 
to the day, saying, O thou who shinest forth from the 
moon, thou that givest light from the moon, let me 
come forth at large amid thy train, and be revealed as 
one of those in glory. Let the Tuat be opened for me. 
Here am I. The speaker is in Amenta as a mummy 
soul appealing to the father of lights and lord of spirits 
that he may come forth in the character of Horus 
divinized to delight the soul of his poor mother. He 
wishes to capitalize the desires of those who make 
salutations to the gods on his behalf. These in modern 
parlance would be the prayers of the priests and 
congregation  ch. for his welfare and safety in the 
future life, otherwise for his salvation. In the chapter 
by which one cometh forth to day he pleads: Let me 
have possession of all things soever which were 
offered ritualistically for me in the nether world. Let 
me have possession of the table of offerings which was 
heapt for me on earth — the solicitations which were 
uttered for me, that he may feed upon the bread of Seb,' 
or the food of earth. Let me have possession of my 
funeral meals, the meals offered on earth for the dead 
in the funerary chamber ch.68. 
The chief object of the deceased on entering 
Amenta is the mode and means of getting out again as  
soon as possible upon the other side. His one all- 
absorbing interest is the resurrection to eternal life. He 
says, Let me reach the land of ages, let me gain the 
land of eternity, for thou, my Lord, hast destined them 
for me ch. .Osiris or the Osiris passed into 
Amenta as the lord of transformations. Various 
changes of shape were necessitated by the various 
modes of progression. As a beetle or a serpent he 
passed through solid earth, as a crocodile through the 
water, as a hawk through the air. As a jackal or a cat 
he saw in the dark; as an ibis he was the knowing one, 
or he of the nose. Thus he was the master of 
transformations, the magician of the later folk-tales, 
who could change his shape at will. Taht is termed the 
great magician as the lord of transformations in the 
moon. Thus the deceased in assuming the type of Taht 
becomes a master of transformation or the magician 
whose transformations had also been made on earth by 
the transformers in trance who pointed the way to 
transformation in death. When Teta comes to 
consciousness on rising again in Amenta he is said to 
have broken his sleep for ever which was in the 
dwelling of Seb - that is, on the earth. He has now 
received his Sahu or investiture of the glorious body. 
Before the mortal Manes could attain the ultimate 
state of spirit in the image of Horus the immortal, he  
must be put together part by part as was Osiris, the 
dismembered god.He is divinized in the likeness of 
various divinities, all of whom had been included as 
powers in the person of the one true god, Neb-er-ter, 
the lord entire. Every member and part of the Manes 
in Amenta has to be fashioned afresh in a new 
creation. The new heart is said to be shaped by certain 
gods in the nether world, according to the deeds done 
in the body whilst the person was living on the earth. 
He assumes the glorified body that is formed feature 
by feature and limb after limb in the likeness of the 
gods until there is no part of the Manes that remains 
undivinized. He is given the hair of Nu, or heaven, the 
eyes of Hathor, ears of Apuat, nose of Khenti-Kas, lips 
of Anup, teeth of Serk, neck of Isis, hands of the 
mighty lord of Tat tu, shoulders of Neith, back of Sut, 
phallus of Osiris, legs and thighs of Nut, feet of Ptah, 
with nails and bones of the living Uraei, until there is 
not a limb of him that is without a god. There is no 
possibility of coming back to earth for a new body or 
for a re— entry into the old mummy. As the Manes 
says, his soul is not bound to his old body at the gates 
of Amenta  ch. 6. Chapter is designated the 
chapter by which the soul is united to the body. This, 
however, does not mean the dead body on earth, but 
the format or bodily type of the mummy in Amenta.  
Here I come, says the speaker, that I may overthrow 
mine adversaries upon the earth, though my dead body 
be buried' ch. Renouf . Let me come forth to day, 
and walk upon my own legs. Let me have the feet of 
the glorified  ch. . At this stage he exclaims, I am 
a soul, and my soul is divine. It is the eternal force. In 
chapters and the Manes asks for his mouth, that 
he may speak with it. Having his mouth restored, he 
asks that it may be opened by Ptah, and that Taht may 
loosen the fetters or muzzles of Sut, the power of 
darkness ch. 23. In short,' that he may recover the 
faculty of speech. In the process of transforming and 
being renewed as the new man, the second Atum, he 
says, I am Khepera, the self-produced upon his 
mother's thigh. Khepera is the beetle— type of the sun 
that is portrayed in pictures of the goddess Nut 
proceeding from the mother's khepsh. The name of 
the beetle signifies becoming and evolving, hence it is 
a type of the becomer in making his transformation. 
The mouth being given, words of power are brought 
to him, he also gathers them from every quarter. Then 
he remembers his name. Next the new heart is given 
to him. His jaws are parted, his eyes are opened. 
Power is given to his arms and vigour to his legs. He is 
in possession of his heart, his mouth, his eyes, his 
limbs, and his speech. He is now a new man  
reincorporated in the body of a Sahu, with a soul that 
is no longer bound to the Khat or dead mummy at the 
gates of Amenta  ch. 26. He looks forward to being 
fed upon the food of Osiris in Aarru, on the eastern 
side of the mead of amaranthine flowers. 
In one phase of the drama the deceased is put 
together bone by bone in correspondence to the 
backbone of Osiris. The backbone was an emblem of 
sustaining power, and this reconstruction of deceased 
is in the likeness of the mutilated god. The speaker at 
this point says, The four fastenings of the hinder part 
of my head are made firm. He does not fall at the 
block. There are of course seven cervical vertebrae in 
the backbone altogether, but three of these are 
peculiar,  the atlas which supports the head, the axis 
upon which the head turns, and the vertebrae 
prominens, with its long spiral process  ch. 
Renouf.No doubt the Osiris was rebuilt upon this 
model, and the four joints were fundamental, they 
constituted a four-fold foundation. In another passage 
the Osiris is apparently perfected upon the square, as 
in the Masonic mysteries. It is the chapter by which 
one assumes the form of Ptah, the great architect of 
the universe. The speaker says, He is four times the 
arm's length of Ra, four times the width of the world 
 Rit., ch. Renouf, which is a mode of describing 
the four quarters or four sides of the earth, as 
represented by the Egyptians. There were seven 
primary powers in the mythical and astronomical 
phases, six of whom are represented by zootypes, and 
the seventh is imaged in the likeness of a man. This is 
repeated in the eschatology, where the highest soul of 
seven is the Ka-eidolon with a human face and figure 
as the final type of spirit which was human on the 
earth and is to be eternal in the heavens. The Manes 
who is being reconstituted says, The [seven] Uraeus 
divinities are my body. ...My image is eternal ch. 85, 
as it would be when the seven souls were 
amalgamated into one that was imaged by the divine 
Ka. The seven Uraeus divinities represented the seven 
souls of life that were anterior to the one enduring 
soul. In the chapter of propitiating one's own Ka the 
Manes says, Hail to thee, my Ka! May I come to thee 
and be glorified and made manifest and ensouled?  
ch. Io3-that is, in attaining the highest of the souls, 
the unifying one. These souls may be conceived as 
seven ascending types of personality. The first is 
figured as the shade, the dark soul or shade of the 
Inoits, the Greenlanders, and other aboriginal races, 
which is portrayed personally in the Ritual lying darkly 
on the ground. The shade was primary, because of its 
being, as it were, a shadow of the old body projected 8 of on the ground in the new life. It is portrayed as a black 
figure stretched out in Amenta. In this way the earth 
shadow of the body in life served as the type of a soul 
that passed out of the body in death. This may explain 
the intimate relationship of the shade to the physical 
mummy, which it is sometimes said to cling to and 
remain with in the tomb, and to draw sustenance from 
the corpse so long as it exists. Thus the shade that 
draws life from the dead body becomes the mythical 
prototype of the vampire and the legendary ghoul. It 
may be difficult to determine exactly what the 
Egyptians understood by the khabit or shade in its 
genesis as a soul, but the Inoit or Aleutians describe it 
as a vapour emanating from the blood and here is 
wisdom for those who comprehend it. The earliest 
human soul, derived from the mother when the blood 
was looked upon as the life, was a soul of blood, and 
the Inoit description answers perfectly to the shade in 
the Egyptian Amenta. Amongst the most primitive 
races the typical basis of a future personality is the 
shade. The Aleutians say the soul at its departure 
divides into the shade and the spirit. The first dwells 
in the tomb, the other ascends to the firmament. 
These, wherever met with, are equivalent to the twin- 
souls of Sut the dark one, and Horus the soul of light. 
For we reckon the Egyptian seven to be earliest and  
old enough to account for and explain the rest which 
are to be found dispersed about the world. The soul as 
shade or shadow is known to the Macusi Indians as the 
man in the eyes who does not die. This is another 
form of the shadow that was not cast upon the 
ground. Dr. Birch drew attention to the fact that 
whilst the deceased has but one Ba, one Sahu, and one 
Ka, he has two shades, his Khabti being in the plural 
[Trans. Society of Bib. Arch., volume viii v page 391. 
These two correspond to the dark and light shades of 
the aborigines. They also conform to the two souls of 
darkness and light that were imaged by the black 
vulture and the golden hawk of Sut and Horus, the 
first two of the total septenary of powers or souls. The 
shade, however, is but one-seventh of the series. The 
other self when perfected consists of seven 
amalgamated souls. Some of the Manes in Amenta do 
not get beyond the state of the shade or Khabit; they 
are arrested in this condition of mummied immobility. 
They do not acquire the new heart or soul of breath; 
they remain in the egg unhatched, and do not become 
the Ba-soul or the glorified Khu. These are the souls 
that are said to be eaten by certain of the gods or 
infernal powers. Eater of the shades is the title of the 
fourth of the forty— two executioners ch. 125. The 
tenth of the mystical abodes in Amenta is the place of  
the monstrous arms that capture and carry away the 
Manes who have not attained a condition beyond that 
of the shade or empty shell. The shells of the 
theosophists may be met with in the Ritual. The 
Manes who is fortified with his divine soul can pass 
this place in safety. He says, Let no one take 
possession of my shade [let no one take possession of 
my shell or envelope]. I am the divine hawk. He has 
issued from the shell of the egg and been established 
beyond the status of the shade as a Ba-soul. With this 
may be compared the superstition that in eating eggs 
one should always break up the empty shell, lest it 
should be made evil use of by the witches. There are 
wretched shades condemned to immobility in the fifth 
of the mystical abodes. They suffer their final arrest in 
that place and position, and are then devoured by the 
giants who live as eaters of the shades. These monsters 
are described as having thigh-bones seven cubits long 
ch. 149,18,19. No mere shade has power enough to 
pass by these personifications of devouring might; they 
are the ogres of legendary lore, who may be found at 
home with the ghoul and the vampire in the dark 
caverns of the Egyptian under world. These were the 
dead whose development in spirit world was arrested 
at the status of the shade, and who were supposed to 
seek the life they lacked by haunting and preying upon  
human souls, particularly on the soul of blood. In its 
next stage the soul is called a Ba, and is represented as 
a hawk with a human head, to show that the nature of 
the soul is human still. This is more than a soul of 
shade, but it was not imagined nor believed that the 
human soul as such inhabited the body of a bird. In 
one of the hells the shades are seen burning, but these 
were able to resist the fire, and it is consequently said, 
The shades live; they have raised their powers .They 
are raised in status by assimilating higher powers. 
Following his taking possession of the soul of shade 
and the soul of light the Osiris is given a new heart, his 
whole or two— fold heart. With some of the primitive 
folk, as with the Basutos, it is the heart that goes out 
in death as the soul that never dies. Bobadilla a learned 
from the Indians of Nicaragua that there are two 
different hearts; that one of these went away with the 
deceased in death, and that it was the heart that went 
away which made them live hereafter. This other 
breathing heart, the basis of the future being, is one 
with the Egyptian heart by which the reconstituted 
person lives again. The heart that was weighed in the 
Hall of Judgment could not have been the organ of life 
on earth. This was a second heart, the heart of another 
life. The Manes makes appeal for this heart not to bear 
evidence against him in presence of the god who is at  
the balance chs. A and 30B. The second is the 
heart that was fashioned anew according to the life 
lived in the body. It is said to be the heart of the great 
god Tehuti, who personated intelligence. Therefore it 
would seem to typify the soul of intelligence. Hence it 
is said to be young and keen of insight among the gods, 
or among the seven souls. The physical representation 
comes first, but it is said in the text of Panchemisis, 
The conscience or heart Ab of a man is his own 
god or divine judge. The new heart represents rebirth, 
and is therefore called the mother ch. A; and 
when the deceased recovers the basis of future being 
in his whole heart he says, although he is buried in the 
deep, deep grave, and bowed down to the region of 
annihilation, he is glorified even there ch. 30A, 
Renouf . 
Now if we take the shade to image a soul of blood, 
the Ba-hawk to image a soul of light, and the hati- 
heart to represent a soul of breath, we can perceive a 
raison d' etre for the offering of blood, of lights, and of 
incense as sacrifices to the Manes in three different 
phases or states. Blood was generally offered to the 
shades, as we see in survival among the Greeks and 
Romans. The shade was in the first stage of the past 
existence, and most needing in Amenta the blood 
which was the life on earth and held to be of first  
necessity for the revivifying of the dead as Manes or 
shades. The Sekhem was one of the souls or powers. It 
is difficult to identify this with a type and place in the 
seven. Pro tern we call it fourth of the series. It is more 
important to know what force it represents. The name 
is derived from the word khem, for potency. Khem in 
physics signifies erectile power. The man of thirty 
years as typical adult is khemt. Sekhem denotes having 
the power or potency of the erectile force. In the 
eschatological phase it is the reproducing, formative 
power of Khem, or Amsu, to re-erect, the power of 
erection being applied to the spirit in fashioning and 
vitalizing the new and glorious body for the future 
resurrection from Amenta. The Khu is a soul in which 
the person has attained the status of the pure in spirit 
called the glorified, represented in the likeness of a 
beautiful white bird; the Ka is a type of eternal 
duration in which the seven— fold personality is unified 
at last for permanent or everlasting life. 
It is the Khu that is thus addressed in the tomb as 
the glorified one: Thou shalt not be imprisoned by 
those who are attached to the person of Osiris [that is, 
the mummy], and who have custody of souls and 
spirits, and who shut up the shades of the dead. It is 
heaven only that shall hold thee. Rit. ch., 92. The 
shade of itself could never leave the tomb. For this  
reason it was commonly held that the shade remained 
with the corpse or mummy on the earth. But here the 
tomb, the mummy, and the shade are not on earth; 
they are in Amenta. Without the Ba-soul, the shade 
remains unvivified. Without the Sekhem, it lacks 
essential form or power of re— arising. Without the 
Khu— spirit the person does not ascend from the 
sepulchre or prison-house of the nether world. But 
when this has been attained the deceased is glorified. If 
chapter is known, he taketh the form of a fully- 
equipped Khu [spirit] in the nether world, and does 
not suffer imprisonment at any door in Amenta, either 
in coming in or going out Renouf, ch. 91. It is only 
when the Manes is invested as a Khu that he ascends 
to the father as a son of god. So we gather from the 
following words addressed to Horus by the person 
who is now a Khu: O mighty one, who seest thy 
father, and who hast charge of the books of Taht, here 
am I. I come, and am glorified and filled with soul and 
power, and am provided with the scriptures of Taht, 
his copy of the book of life, his light in the darkness of 
Amenta. He now ascends to Ra his father, who is in 
the bark, and exclaims again and again, I am a 
powerful Khu; let thy soundness be my soundness 
Renouf, ch. 105. When the deceased has been made 
perfect as a Khu, he is free to enter the great house of  
seven halls ch. 145. Likewise the house of him who 
is upon the hill, and who is ruler in the divine hall. 
The great house is the heaven of Osiris based upon the 
thirty-six gates or duo-decans of the zodiac. The 
other is the house of Anup at the summit of the 
mount in Annu. Behold me, he exclaims; behold 
me, I am come to you, and have carried off and put 
together my forms, or constituent parts of the 
permanent soul, which were seven altogether. These 
are: The Khabit or dark shade; the Ba or light 
shade; the breathing heart; the Sekhem; the 
Sahu; the Khu; the Ka. When the Manes has 
become a Khu, the Ka is still a typical ideal ahead of 
him; so far ahead or aloof that he propitiates it with 
offerings. In fact, he presents himself as the sacrificial 
victim that would die to attain conjunction with his 
Ka, his image of eternal duration, his type of totality, 
in which the seven souls were permanently unified in 
one at last. The Ka has been called the double of the 
dead, as if it simply represented the Doppel— ganger. 
But it is not merely a phantom of the living or 
personal image of the departed. It serves also for the 
apparition or revenant ; it is a type rather than a 
portrait. It is a type that was pre-natal. It images a soul 
which came into existence with the child, a soul 
which is food and sustenance to the body all through  
life, a soul of existence here and of duration for the 
life hereafter. Hence it is absorbed at last in the 
perfected personality. It is depicted in the Temple of 
Luxor, where the birth of Amen— hetep III. is 
portrayed as coming from the hand of god. The Ka of 
the royal infant is shown in the pictures being formed 
by Khnum the moulder on the potter's wheel. It is in 
attendance on the person all life through, as the genius 
or guardian angel, and the fulfilment of the personality 
is effected by a final reunion with the Ka. As already 
shown, when divine honours were paid to the Pharaoh 
the offerings were made to his Ka, not to his mortal 
self. Thus the Manes in Amenta makes an offering of 
incense to purify himself in propitiation of his Ka  ch. 05. There is a chapter of providing food for the Ka. 
Also the mortuary meal was eaten in the chamber of 
the Ka, the resurrection chamber of the sepulchre. 
Food was offered to the Ka-eidolon as the 
representative of the departed, instead of directly to 
the spirits of the ancestors. It was set up there as 
receiver— general of the offerings. Also the food was 
presented to it as a type of the divine food which 
sustained the human soul. Thus, when the divine 
sustenance is offered by the god or goddess to the soul 
of the mortal on the earth, or to the Manes in Amenta, 
it is presented by the giver to the Ka. Certain priests 
were appointed to be ministers to the Ka, and these 
made the offerings to the Ka of the deceased on behalf 
of the living relatives. This is because the Ka was the 
type of personality, seventh of the seven souls attained 
as the highest in which the others were to be included 
and absorbed. In the vignettes to chapter of the 
Ritual Naville, Todt., Kap., vol. i., p. the 
deceased is shown his Ka, which is with him in the 
passage of Amenta, not left behind him in the tomb, 
that he may not forget himself as we might say, or, as 
he says, that he may not suffer loss of identity by 
forgetting his name. Showing the Ka to him enables the 
Manes to recall his name in the great house, and 
especially in the crucible of the house of flame. When 
the deceased is far advanced on his journey through 
Amenta, his Ka is still accompanying him, and it is 
described as being the food of his life in spirit world, 
even as it had been his spiritual food in the human life. 
Thou art come, Osiris; thy Ka is with thee. Thou 
feedest thyself under thy name of Ka 128,6. When 
the Osiris has passed from the state of a shade to the 
stage of the Ka, he will become what the Ritual 
designates a fully equipped Manes who has completed 
his investiture. As a Sahu he was reincorporated in a 
spiritual body. As a Khu he was invested with a robe 
of glory. As a sacred hawk with the head of a Bennu  
he was endowed with the soul of Horus ch. 78. It 
was here he exclaimed Behold me; I am come to you 
[the gods and the glorified], and have carried off my 
forms and united them. But in chapter he was 
anxiously looking forward to the day of reckoning, 
when he said, Let the way be open to my soul and 
my shade, that I may see the great god within his 
sanctuary on the day of the soul's reckoning, when all 
hearts and words are weighed. He is not yet one of 
the spirits made perfect, being neither judged nor 
justified. He has to pass his last examination, and is 
now approaching the great hall of judgment for his 
trial. He says, I am come that I may secure my suit in 
Abydos, the mythical re:— birthplace of Osiris. This is 
the final trial of the long series through which he has 
hitherto, successfully passed Rit, ch. II Renouf. He 
has now arrived at the judgment hall. It has been 
asserted that the deeds which the deceased had done 
here on earth in no wise influenced the fate that 
awaited the man after death Maspero, Egyptian 
Archaeology. Eng. tr., p. 149. But how so, when the 
new heart which was given to the deceased in 
Amenta, where he or she was reconstituted, is said to 
be fashioned in accordance with what he has done in his 
human life? And the speaker pleads that his new heart 
may not be fashioned according to all the evil things  
that may be said against him Rit., ch. 27. He is 
anxious that the ministrants of Osiris in the Neter— 
Kar, who deal with a man according to the course of 
his life, may not give a bad odour to his name ch. OB. And again he pleads/'Let me be glorified 
through my attributes; let me be estimated according 
to my merits ch.72. It is plainly apparent that the 
future fate of the soul was dependent on the deeds 
that were done in the body, and the character of the 
deceased was accreted according to his conduct in the 
life on earth. 
The jury sitting in the judgment hall consisted of 
forty-two masters of truth. Their duty was to discover 
the truth with fierce interrogation and the instinct of 
sleuth-hounds on their track. Was this Manes a true 
man? Had he lived a true life? Was he true at heart 
when this was tested in the scales? His viscera were 
present for inspection, and these keen scrutinizers in 
their animal— headed forms were very terrible, not only 
in visage, for they had a vested interest in securing a 
verdict of guilty against the Manes, inasmuch as the 
viscera of the condemned were flung to them as 
perquisites and prey, therefore they searched with the 
zeal of hunger for the evidence of evil living that 
might be found written on this record of the inner 
man. Piecemeal the Manes were examined, to be  
passed if true, to be sent back if not, in the shape of 
swine or goats or other typhonian animals, and driven 
down into the fiery lake of outer darkness where Baba 
the devourer of hearts, the Egyptian raw-head-and- 
bloody— bones, was lying in wait for them. The 
highest verdict rendered by the great judge in this 
most awful Judgment Hall was a testimony to the 
truth and purity of character established for the Manes 
on evidence that was unimpeachable. At this post- 
mortem the sins done in the body through violating the 
law of nature were probed for most profoundly. Not 
only was the deceased present in spirit to be judged at 
the dread tribunal, the book of the body was opened 
and its record read. The vital organs, such as the heart, 
liver, and lungs, were brought into judgment as 
witnesses to the life lived on earth. Any part too 
vitiated for the rottenness to be cut off or scraped 
away was condemned and flung as offal to the powers 
who are called the eaters of filth, the devourers of 
hearts, and drinkers of the blood of the wicked. And if 
the heart, for example, should be condemned to be 
devoured because very bad, the individual could not 
be reconstructed for a future life. 
In order that the Osiris may pass the Great Assize 
as one of the justified, he must have made the word of 
Osiris truth on earth against his enemies. He must  
have lived a righteous life and been just, truthful, 
merciful, charitable, humane. In coming to the Hall of 
Judgment or Justice to look on the divine countenance 
and be cleansed from all the sins he may have 
committed he says, I have come to thee, O my Lord. I 
know thee. Lord of Righteousness is thy name. I bring 
to thee right. I have put a stop to wrong. His plea is 
that he has done his best to fulfil the character of 
Horus— Makheru. Some of his pleas are very touching. 
He has not exacted from the labourer, as the first- 
fruits of each day, more work than was justly due to 
him. He has not snatched the milk from the mouths of 
babes and sucklings. He has not been a land-grabber. 
He has not dammed the running water. He has caused 
no famine, no weeping, no suffering to men, and has 
not been a robber of food. He has not tampered with 
the tongue of the balance, nor been fraudulent, mean, 
or sordid of soul. There is a goodly list of pre- 
Christian virtues besides all the theoretical Christian 
ones. Amongst others, he says, I have propitiated the 
god with that which he'loveth. This was especially by 
the offering of Maat, viz., justice, truth, and 
righteousness. I have given bread to the hungry, water 
to the thirsty, clothes to the naked, and a boat to the 
shipwrecked ch. 125. Yet we have been told that 
charity and mercy were totally unknown to the pagan 
world. He asks the forty-two assessors for the great 
judge not to go against him, for he did the right thing 
in Tamerit, the land of Egypt. His heart is weighed in 
the scales of justice. He passes pure, as one of those 
who are welcomed by Horus for his own faithful 
followers, the blessed of his father, to whom it is said, 
Come, come in peace. Horus the intercessor, 
advocate, or paraclete, now takes him by the hand and 
leads him into the presence of Osiris in the sanctuary. 
The Manes in the Judgment Hall is black-haired, as 
seen in the pictures of Ani Papyrus of Ani, pi. 4. But 
when he kneels before Osiris on the throne his hair is 
white. He has passed as one of the purified and is on 
his way to join the ranks of the just spirits made 
perfect, who are called the glorified. The attendants 
say to him, We put an end to thy ills and we remove 
that which is disorderly in thee through thy being 
smitten to the earth in death. These were the ills of 
mortality from which he has now been freed in spirit. 
Here occurs the resurrection of the Osiris in the 
person of Horus, and it is said, Ha, Osiris 1 thou hast 
come, and thy Ka with thee, which uniteth with thee 
in thy name of Ka— hetep  ch. 128. An ordinary 
rendering of Ka-hetep would be image of peace = 
type of attainment; but as the word hetep or hepti 
also means number seven, that coincides with the Ka  
being an image of the septenary of souls, complete at 
last to be unified in the hawk-headed Horus. 
In the book or papyrus— roll for invoking the gods of 
the Kerti, or boundaries, we find the speaker has now 
reached the limit of Amenta. He says, I am the soul of 
Osiris, and rest in him ch. 127. He is hailed as one 
who has attained his Ka and received his insignia of 
the resurrection. It is now said to the Osiris, Ha, 
Osiris! thou hast received thy sceptre, thy pedestal, 
and the flight of stairs beneath thee Rit., ch. 128. 
The sceptre was the hare-headed symbol of the 
resurrection first carried by Ptah the opener. The 
pedestal is the papyrus of Horus, and the stairs denote 
the means of ascent from Amenta to the summit of 
the Mount of Glory.He is now prepared and 
empowered to enter the bark of Ra which voyages 
from east to west by day and from west to east by 
night. Before entering the bark the Osiris has attained 
to everyone of his stations in Amenta previously to 
sailing for the circumpolar paradise upon the stellar 
Mount of Glory. 
Chapter is the book by which the soul is made 
to live for ever on the day of entering the bark of Ra, 
which means that it contains the gnosis of the subject. 
It was made for the birthday or re-birthday of Osiris. 
Osiris is re— born in Horus as the type of an eternal  
soul. Hence the speaker says, in this character, I am 
coffined in an ark like Horus, to whom his cradle [or 
nest of reeds] is brought. He is reborn as Horus on his 
papyrus, an earlier figure on the water than the bark of 
Ra. He prays, Let not the Osiris be shipwrecked on 
the great voyage; keep the steering tackle free from 
misadventure. When he entered Amenta the 
deceased in Osiris bore the likeness of the god in 
mummy form. Before he comes forth from the lower 
Aarru garden he can say, at the end of certain 
transformations in type and personality, I am the soul 
of Osiris, and I rest in him ch. 127. This is in the 
character of Horus. I am Horus on this auspicious 
day at the beautiful coming forth from Amenta. He 
has reached the boundary, and now invokes the god 
who is in his solar disk, otherwise in the bark of Ra. 
He died in Osiris to live again in Horus, son of god, or 
in his likeness. Chapters and begin the book of 
making the Osiris perfect. And this, as the Ritual 
shows, was in the likeness of Horus the beloved sole- 
begotten son of Ra, the god in spirit. Now, when the 
Manes had included his Ka in the name of Ka-hetep 
Rit., ch. it is said to the deceased in the Pyramid 
texts, Teta, Pepi i.,34, Horus hath brought to 
pass that his ka, which is in thee, should unite with 
thee in thy name of Ka— hetep, which shows the Ka 
within him was the image of Horus divinized. This 
corroborates the suggestion that the ka-type was 
derived from Ka later Sa the son of Atum-Ra, who 
was earlier than Horus as the son of Osiris. Thus the 
divine sonship of humanity which was personified in 
Horus, or Iu, or Sa, was also typified in the ka-image 
of a higher spiritual self; and when the Manes had 
attained the status of a spirit perfected it was in the 
form of the divine son who was the express image of 
the father god. He was Horus the beloved, in all 
reality, through perfecting the ideal type in his own 
personality. 
He now enters the divine presence of Osiris— Ra to 
relate what he has done in the characters of human 
Horus, Har— Tema, and Har— Makheru on behalf of his 
father which constitutes him the veritable son of god. 
When the Manes had attained the solar bark he has 
put on the divine body of Ra and is hailed by the 
ministrants with cries of welcome and acclamations 
from the Mount of Glory  ch. 133. In travelling 
through the under-world he had passed from the 
western horizon of earth to the east of heaven, where 
he joins the solar boat to voyage the celestial waters. 
There is a change of boat for the night. Hence the 
speaker says he is coming in the two barks of the lord 
of Sau ch. 136B, Renouf. There may be some  
difficulty about the exact position of the chapter 
numbered no in the Ritual, but there is no difficulty 
in identifying the fields of peace upon the summit of 
Mount Hetep as the lower paradise of two, which was 
the land of promise attainable in Amenta. This was 
the sub-terrestrial or earthly paradise of the legends. 
When the Manes comes to these elysian fields he is 
still in the earth of eternity, and has to prove himself 
an equal as a worker with the mighty Khus Khuti, 
who are nine cubits high, in cultivating his allotment 
of arable land. The arrival at Mount Hetep in this 
lower paradise or heaven of the solar mythos precedes 
the entrance to the Judgment Hall which is in the 
domain of the Osiris below, and the voyage from east 
to west in the Matit and the Sektit bark of the sun, 
therefore it is not in the ultimate heaven or the upper 
paradise of eternity upon Mount Hetep. We see from 
the Pyramid texts Pepi I., lines Maspero, 
Les Inscripions. des Pyramides de Sakkarah that there 
were two stages of ascent to the upper paradise, that 
were represented by two ladders : one is the ladder of 
Sut, as the ascent from the land of darkness, the other 
is the ladder of Horus, reaching to the land of light. 
King Pepi salutes the two: Homage to thee, O ladder 
of Sut. Set thyself up, O ladder of God. Set thyself up, 
O ladder of Sut. Set thyself up, O ladder of Horus, 
whereby Osiris appeared in heaven when he wrought 
protection for Ra. Pepi likewise enters heaven in his 
name of the ladder [Budge, Book of the Dead, Intro., 
pp. 118. The Manes also says, in ch. I raise 
my ladder up to the sky, that I may behold the gods. 
But, having traced the reconstruction of the 
deceased for a future life, we now return, to follow 
him once more from the entrance to Amenta on his 
journey through the under— world. His mortal 
personality having been made a permanent as possible 
in the mummy left on earth, the Manes rising in 
Amenta now sets out to attain the personality that is 
to last for ever. He pleads with all his dumbness that 
his mouth may be opened, or, in other words, that his 
memory, which he has lost awhile, may be given back 
to him, so that he may utter the words of power chs. 1—with which he is equipped. The ceremony of 
opening the mouth after the silence of death was one 
of the profoundest secrets. The great type of power by 
means of which the mouth is opened was the leg of 
the hippopotamus goddess, the symbol of her 
mightiness as primum mobile in the Great Bear having 
been adopted for this purpose in the eschatology. The 
ceremony was performed at the tomb as well as in 
Amenta by the opener Ptah as a mystery of the 
resurrection. And amongst the many other survivals 
this rite of opening the mouth is still performed in 
Rome. It was announced in a daily paper not long 
since the Mail, August 8th, that after the death 
of Pope Leo XIII. and the coronation of Pius X. a 
Consistory would be held to close and open the lips of 
the cardinals newly created, or newly born into the 
purple. The Osiris also prays that when his mouth is 
opened Taht may come to him equipped with the 
words of power. So soon as the mouth of the Manes is 
freed from the fetters of dumbness and darkness or 
muzzles of Sut and restored to him, he collects the 
words of power from all quarters more persistently 
than any sleuth— hound and more swiftly than the flash 
of light chs. Renouf. These words of power 
are magical in their effect. They paralyze all 
opposition. They open every door. The power is at 
once applied. The speaker says, Back, in retreat Back, crocodile Sui! Come not against me, who live by 
the words of power!   ch. 31. This is spoken to the 
crocodiles or dragons who come to rob the Manes and 
carry off the words of power that protect the deceased 
in death. The magical mode of employing the words of 
power in the mysteries of Taht is by the deceased 
being assimilated to the character and assuming the 
superhuman type as a means of protection against the 
powers of evil. The speaker in the Ritual does not  
mistake himself for the deity. He is the deity pro tern. 
in acted Sign-language, and by such means is master of 
the magical power. It is the god who is the power, and 
the magician employs the words and signs which 
express that power; but instead of praying to the god 
he makes use of the divine words attributed to the 
god, and personates the god as Horus or Ra, Taht or 
Osiris, in character. He puts on the mask of a 
crocodile, an ibis, a lion, or other zootype of the 
primary powers, and says to his adversaries: I am the 
crocodile = Sebek, or, I am the lion = Atum, or, I 
am Ra, the sun, protecting himself with the Uraeus 
serpent, and consequently no evil thing can overthrow 
me ch. 32. Repeating ch. was a magical way of 
escaping from the slaughter which was wrought in 
Suten-Khen, and the mode of magic was for the 
deceased in his re-birth to become or to be 
assimilated to the divine child in his rebirth. He tells 
the serpent Abur that he is the divine babe, the 
mighty one. Not a limb of him is without a god. He is 
not to be grasped by arms or seized by hands. Not 
men or gods, the glorified ones or the damned; not 
generations past, present, or to come, can inflict any 
injury on him who cometh forth and proceedeth as 
the eternal child, the everlasting one Rit., ch. 42, or 
as Horus, the son of Isis. These divine characters are  
assumed by the Manes when he commands his 
enemies to do his bidding. According to the magical 
prescriptions, in fighting the devil, or the evil Apap, a 
figure of the monster was to be moulded in wax with 
the name inscribed upon it in green Budge, 
Proceedings Soc. of Arch., po 21. This was to be 
spat upon many times, spurned with the foot, and 
then flung into the fire, as a magical mode of casting 
out the devil. When the Apap reptile is first 
encountered and addressed in the Ritual it is said, O 
one of wax! who takest captive and seizest with 
violence and livest upon those who are motionless, let 
me not become motionless before thee Rit., ch. 7. 
This is because the presence of the devouring monster 
is made tangible by the image of wax which represents 
the power addressed, that is otherwise invisible. The 
ideal becomes concrete in the figure that is thus 
magically employed. It is in this magical sense that the 
opening chapters of the Ritual are declared to contain 
the words of power that bring about the resurrection 
and the glory of the Manes in Amenta. This mode of 
magic is likewise a mode of hypnotism or human 
magnetism which was universally common with the 
primitive races, especially the African, but which is 
only now being timidly touched by modern science. 
The power of paralyzing and of arresting motion was  
looked upon as magical potency indeed. Hypnotic 
power is magical power. This is described as being 
taken from the serpent as its strength. In one passage 
Rit v ch. the serpent is described as he who 
paralyzes with his eyes. And previously, in the same 
chapter, the speaker says to the serpent, I am the man 
who covers thy head with darkness, and I am the great 
magician. Thine eyes have been given to me, and I am 
glorified through them. Thy strength [or power] is in 
my grasp. This might be termed a lesson in 
hypnotism. The speaker becomes a great magician by 
taking possession of the paralyzing power in the eyes 
of the serpent. The description seems to imply that 
there had been a contest betwixt the serpent-charmer 
and the serpent, and that the man had conquered by 
wresting the magical power from the reptile. The 
Manes has much to say about the adversary of souls 
whom he meets in Amenta. This is the Apap of 
darkness, of drought and dearth, disease and death. It is 
the representative of evil in physical phenomena 
which was translated as a figure from the mythology 
into the domain of eschatology. In chapter the 
Osiris standeth up upon his feet to face and defy the 
crocodiles of darkness who devour the dead and carry 
off the words of power from the glorified in the 
under-world. They are stopped and turned back when  
the speaker says: I am Atum. All things which exist 
are in my grasp, and those depend on me which are 
not yet in being. I have received increase of length and 
depth and fulness of breathing within the domain of 
my father the great one. He hath given me the 
beautiful Amenta through which the living pass from 
death to life ch.32. Thus the Osiris appears, speaks, 
and acts in the characters of a drama previously extant 
in the mythology. He comes forth: As the bull of 
Osiris ch. A; as the god in lion form, Atum ch. 4; as the jackal Ap-uat, of Sothis or Polaris; as the 
divine hawk, Horus ch. 71; as the sacred hawk ch. 8; as the lotus of earth ch. 81; as the bennu-bird or 
phoenix— soul of Ra ch. 83; as the shen— shen or 
hernshaw ch. 84; as the soul that is an image of the 
eternal ch. as the dove or swallow  ch. 86; as the 
crocodile Sebek  ch. 88; as the khu, or glorified spirit 
 ch. 91; and many more. But the individual is shown 
to persist in a human form. He comes forth by day and 
is living after death in the figure, but not as the 
mummy, that he wore on earth. He is portrayed staff 
in hand, prepared for his journey through the under- 
world Naville, Todt, Kap vignette. Also the ka- 
image of man the immortal is portrayed in the likeness 
of man the mortal. The human figure is never lost to 
view through all the phantasmagoria of transformation  
Naville, Todt, vignettes to Kap 2 and 186. From 
beginning to end of the Ritual we see it is a being once 
human, man Or woman, who is the traveller through 
the nether— world up the mount of rebirth in heaven, 
at the summit of the stellar paradise, where the effigy 
of the earthly personality was ultimately merged in the 
divine image of the ka, and the mortal puts on 
immortality in the likeness of the dear old humanity, 
changed and glorified. This shows the ghost was 
founded on a human basis, and that it continued the 
human likeness in proof of its human origin. 
Resurrection in the Ritual is the coming forth to day 
Peri-em-hru, whether from the life on earth or to 
the life attainable in the heaven of eternity. The first 
resurrection is, as it were, an ascension from the tomb 
in the nether earth by means of the secret doorway. 
But this coming forth is in, not from, Amenta, after 
burial in the upper earth. The deceased had passed 
through the sepulchre, emerging in the lower earth. 
He issues from the valley of darkness and the shadow 
of death. Osiris had been cut to pieces in the lunar and 
other phenomena by the evil Sut, and the limbs were 
gathered up and put together by his son and by the 
mother in Amenta, where he rose again as Horus from 
the dead. And whatsoever had been postulated of  
Osiris the mummy in the mythology was repeated on 
behalf of the Osiris in the eschatology. 
Osiris had originated as a god in matter when the 
powers were elemental, but in the later theology the 
supreme soul in nature was configurated in a human 
form. Matter as human was then considered higher 
than matter unhumanized, and the body as human 
mummy was superior to matter in external nature. 
Also the spirit in human form was something beyond 
an elemental spirit; hence the god as supreme spirit 
was based, as already shown, upon the human ghost, 
with matter as the mummy. Osiris as a mummy in 
Amenta is what we might call the dead body of 
matter invested with the limbs and features of the 
human form, as the type to which the elemental 
powers had attained in Ptah, in Atum, and in the 
human featured Horus, which succeeded the earlier 
representation by means of zootypes. Osiris is a figure 
of inanimate nature, personalized as the mummy with 
a human form and face, whilst being also an image of 
matter as the physical body of the god. The process 
applied to the human body first in death was 
afterwards applied to the god in matter, in the 
elements, or in the inert condition at the time of the 
winter solstice, awaiting corpse-like for his 
transformation or transubstantiation into the young  
and glorious body of the sun, or spirit of vegetation in 
the spring. The solar god as the sun of evening or of 
autumn was the suffering, dying sun, or the dead sun 
buried in the nether earth. To show this, it was made a 
mummy of, bound up in the linen vesture without a 
seam, and thus imaged in a likeness of the dead who 
bore the mummy form on earth, the unknown being 
represented by the known. The sun god when 
descending to Amenta may be said to mummify or 
haras his own body in becoming earthed or, as it were, 
fleshed in the earth of Ptah. Hence the mummy— type 
of Ptah, of Atum, and Osiris, each of whom at 
different stages was the solar god in mummied form 
when buried in Amenta. It has now to be shown how 
it was brought about that the final and supreme one 
god of the Egyptian religion was represented as a 
mummy in the earth of eternity, and why the mystery 
of the mummy is the profoundest of all the mysteries 
of Amenta. An essential element in Egyptian religion 
was human sympathy with the suffering god, or the 
power in nature which gave itself, whether as herself 
or himself, as a living sacrifice, to bring the elements of 
life to men in light, in water, air, vegetation, fruit, 
roots, grain, and all things edible. Whence the type 
was eaten sacramentally at the thanksgiving meal. This 
feeling was pathetically expressed at the festival of  
the staves, when crutches were offered as supports 
for the suffering autumn sun, otherwise the cripple 
deity Horus, dying down into Amenta and pitifully 
needing help which the human sympathizers tried to 
give. Can anything be more pathetic than this address 
to the sufferer as the sun god in Amenta: Decree this, 
O Atum, that if I see thy face [in glory] I shall not be 
pained by the signs of thy sufferings. Atum decrees. 
He also decrees that the god will look on the suppliant 
as his second self Rit v ch. Naville . 
The legend of the voluntary victim who in a passion 
of divinest pity became incarnate, and was clothed in 
human form and feature for the salvation of the world, 
did not originate in a belief that God had manifested 
once for all as an historic personage.lt has its roots in 
the remotest part. The same legend was repeated in 
many lands with a change of name, and at times of 
sex, for the sufferer, but none of the initiated in the 
esoteric wisdom ever looked upon the Karaite Iusa, or 
gnostic Horus, Jesus, Tammuz, Krishna, Buddha, 
Witoba, or any other of the many saviours as historic 
in personality, for the simple reason that they had 
been more truly taught. Mythology was earlier than 
eschatology, and the human victim was preceded by 
the zootype; the phenomena first rendered mythically 
were not manifested in the human sphere. The natural  
genesis was in another category altogether. The earliest 
Horus was not incorporated in a human form. He 
represented that soul of life which came by water to a 
dried-up, withering world upon the verge of perishing 
with hunger and with thirst. Here the fish or the first- 
fruit of the earth was the sign of his incorporation in 
matter; hence the typical shoot, the green ear, or the 
branch that were imaged in Child-Horus. The saviour 
who came by water was Ichthys the fish. The saviour 
who came in fruit as product of the tree was the 
Natzer. The saviour who came by spirit was the soul 
of the sun. This was the earliest rendering of the 
incorporation of Horus as the primary life and light of 
the world made manifest in external nature, before 
the doctrine was applied to biology in the human 
domain, where Horus came by blood, as the mode of 
incarnation in the human form. In the later myth 
Osiris is the deity who suffered as the winter sun, 
assailed by all the powers of darkness. He also suffered 
from the drought as imaged in the fire— breathing 
Apap-reptile, and in other ways as lord of life in 
water, vegetation, and in various forms of food. This 
suffering deity or provider was the god in matter. Ra is 
the god in spirit, Osiris in matter. Not only in the 
matter of earth, but also in the human form — the 
form assumed by Horus as the child of earth, or Seb. 
Osiris, the great sufferer in the dead of winter, was not 
simply the sun, nor was Osiris dead, however inert in 
matter, lying dumb in darkness, with non— beating 
heart. He was the buried life of earth, and hence the 
god in matter imaged in the likeness of a mummy 
waiting for the resurrection in Amenta. Such was the 
physical basis in the mythos of the mystery that is 
spiritual in the eschatology. Mummy— making in Egypt 
was far older than the Osirian cult. It was at least as 
old as Anup the divine embalmer of the dead. 
Preserving the human mummy perfectly intact was a 
mode of holding on to the individual form and 
features as a means of preserving the earthly likeness 
for identifying the personality hereafter in spirit. The 
mummy was made on purpose to preserve the 
physical likeness of the mortal. The risen dead are 
spoken of in the Ritual as those who have found their 
faces. The mummy Was a primitive form of the 
African effigy in which the body was preserved as its 
own portrait, whereas the ka Was intended for a 
likeness of the spirit or immortal — the likeness in 
which the just spirit made perfect was to see Osiris in 
his glory. Both the mummy and the ka were 
represented in the Egyptian tomb, each with a 
chamber to itself. From the beginning there had been a 
visible endeavour to preserve some likeness or  
memento of the earthly body even when the bones 
alone could be preserved. Mummy— making in the 
Ritual begins with collecting the bones and piecing 
them together, if only in a likeness of the skeleton. It is 
at this stage that Horus is said to collect the bones of 
his father Osiris for the resurrection in a future life by 
means of transubstantiation. The same primitive mode 
of preparing the mummy is implied when it is said to 
the solar god on entering the under— world, Reckon 
thou thy bones, and set thy limbs, and turn thy face to 
the beautiful Amenta ch. Renouf. Teta, 
deceased, is thus addressed, O Teta, thou hast raised 
up thy head for thy bones, and thou hast raised up thy 
bones for thy head. Also the hand of Teta is said to be 
like a wall as support of Horus in giving stability to his 
bones. Thus the foundation was laid for building the 
mummy-type as a present image of the person who 
had passed. 
Amongst other types, the Yucatanese made little 
statues of their fathers. The head was left hollow, so 
that the ashes of the cremated body might be placed 
in the skull, as in an urn; this, says Landa, was then 
covered with the skin of the occiput taken from the 
corpse'.The custom is akin to that which has been 
unearthed in the European bone caves, where the 
skulls of the adult dead are found to have been  
trepanned, and the bones of little children inserted 
instead of human ashes. In Sign-language the bones of 
the child were typical of rebirth in a future life. The 
desire to live and the longing for a life after death, in 
earlier times, are inexpressible and the efforts made to 
give some kind of expression to the feeling are 
ineffably pathetic. D' Acugna relates that it was a 
custom with the South American Indians to preserve 
and keep the dead bodies of relatives in their homes as 
long as was possible, so as to have their friends 
continually before their eyes. For these they made 
feasts and set out viands before the dead bodies. Here, 
in passing, we would suggest that in the Egyptian 
custom as described by both Herodotus and Plutarch 
it was not the dead mummy that was brought to table 
as a type of immortality, but the image of the ka, 
which denoted what the guests would be like after 
death, and was therefore a cause for rejoicing. Carrying 
the ka image round the festive board was just a 
Karaite prototype of the elevation and carrying round 
of the host for adoration in the Church of Rome. 
Indeed, the total paraphernalia of the Christian 
mysteries had been made use of in Egyptian temples. 
For instance, in one of the many titles of Osiris in all 
his forms and places he is called Osiris in the 
monstrance Rit., ch. Naville. In the Roman ritual  
the monstrance is a transparent vessel in which the 
host or victim is exhibited. In the Egyptian cult Osiris 
was the victim. The elevation of the host signifies the 
resurrection of the crucified god, who rose again in 
spirit from the corpus of the victim, now represented 
by the host. Osiris in the monstrance should of itself 
suffice to show that the Egyptian Karast Krst is the 
original Christ, and that the Egyptian mysteries were 
continued by the gnostics and Christianized in 
Rome.The mode of conveying the oral wisdom to the 
initiate in the mysteries of young man making was 
continued in the mystery of mummy making. Whilst 
the mummy was being prepared for burial, chapters of 
the Ritual were read to it, or to the conscious ka, by 
an official who was known as the man of the roll. 
Every Egyptian was supposed to be acquainted with 
the formula, from having learned them during his 
lifetime, by which he was to have the use of his limbs 
and possession of his soul restored to him in death, and 
to be protected from the dangers of the nether-world. 
These were repeated to the dead person, however, for 
greater security, during the process of embalming, and 
the son of the deceased, or the master of the 
ceremonies, took care to whisper to the mummy the 
most mysterious parts, which no living ear might hear  
with impunity. Maspero, The Struggle of the Nations, 
Eng. trans., pp. 5 1 1. 
But it is an error to suppose with some 
Egyptologists, like M. de Horrack, that the new 
existence of the deceased was begun in the old earthly 
body [Proceed. Society of Bib. Archaeology, vol. vi., 
March p. 126. The resurrection of the dead in 
mummy form may look at first sight as if the old dead 
corpse had risen from the sepulchre. But the risen is 
not the dead mummy, it is a type of personality in the 
shape of the mummy. It is what the Ritual describes as 
the mummy— form of a god. The Manes prays, May I 
too arise and assume the mummied form as a god, 
that is, as the mummy of Osiris, the form in which 
Amsu-Horus rose, a type of permanent preservation, 
but not yet one of the spirits made perfect by 
possession of the ka. It was this mistake which led to a 
false idea that the Egyptians held the dogma of a 
corporeal resurrection of the dead which became one 
of the doctrines that were fostered into fixity by the 
A— Gnostic Christians. The Osiris as mortal Manes, or 
Amsu— Horus as divinity, does rise in the mummy 
form, but this is in another life and in another world, 
not as a human being on our earth. It has the look of a 
physical resurrection in the old body, and so the 
ignorant misinterpreters mistook it and founded on it  
a corporeal basis for the future life. In the Christian 
scheme the buried dead were to rise again in the old 
physical corpus for the last judgment in time at the 
literal ending of the world. This was another delusion 
based on the misrendering of the Egyptian wisdom. 
The dead who rose again in Amenta, which was the 
ground floor of a future state of existence, also rose 
again for the judgment; but this took place in the earth 
of eternity which was mistaken by the Christians for 
the earth of time, just as they had mistaken the form 
of the risen sahu for the old body of matter that never 
was supposed to rise again by those who knew. The 
earthly mummy of the deceased does not go to 
heaven, nor does it enter the solar boat, yet the Osiris 
is told to enter the boat, his reward being the seat 
which receives his sahu or spirit mummy Rit., ch. 130. 
Clearly this can only refer to the spiritual body, as the 
earthly mummy was left on the earth outside the gates 
of Amenta. Not only is the corporeal mummy not 
placed on board the boat of souls, the deceased was to 
be represented by a statue of cedar wood anointed 
with oil, or, as we might say, Christified 134,.There is no possible question of a corporeal 
resurrection. The object, aim, and end of all the 
spiritualizing processes is to become non— corporeal in 
the earthly sense - that is, as the Ritual represents it,  
to defecate into pure spirit. The word sahu or the 
mummy is employed to express the future form as 
well as the old. But it is a spiritual sahu, the divine 
mummy. Even the bones and flesh of souls are 
mentioned but these are the bones of Osiris, the 
backbone of the universal frame, and the flesh of Ra. 
The terms used for the purpose of divinizing are 
antipodal to any idea of return to corporeality as a 
material mummy. The mummy of the Manes is a sahu 
of the glorified spirit. This state of being is attained by 
the deceased in chapter I am the beloved son of his 
father. I come to the state of a sahu of the well- 
furnished Manes. He is said to be mummified in the 
shape of a divine hawk when he takes the form of 
Horus , not as the earthly mummy in a 
resurrection on our earth. The resurrection of Osiris 
was not corporeal. The mummy of the god in matter 
or mortality rises from the tomb transubstantiated into 
spirit. So complete is the transformation that he is 
Osiris bodily changed into Horus as a sahu or spirit. 
The Egyptians had no doctrine of a physical 
resurrection of the dead. Though they retained the 
mummy as a type of personality, it was a changed and 
glorified form of the earthly body, the mummy that 
had attained its feet in the resurrection. It was the 
Karast mummy, or, word for word and thing for thing,  
Amsu-Horus was the Karaite Christ who rose up 
from the mummy as a spirit. 
Also it is entirely false to represent the Egyptians as 
making the mummy and preserving it for the return of 
the soul into the old earthly body.That is but a shadow 
of the true idea cast backwards by Christianity. 
Millions of cats were made into mummies and 
sacredly preserved around the city of Bubastes, but not 
with the notion of a bodily resurrection. They were 
the totems of the great cat clan or its metropolis, the 
Egyptian Clan Chattan, which had become symbols 
or fetishes of religious significance to later times when 
the totemic mother as the cat, the seer by night, was 
divinized in the lunar goddess Pasht, and the 
worshippers embalmed her zootype, not because they 
adored the cat, but because the deess herself was the 
Great Mother typified by the cat. Both the mother 
and the moon were recognized beyond the cat, which 
was their totemic zootype and venerated symbol. 
Osiris was the mummy of Amenta in two characters; 
in one he is the khat— mummy lying laid out with 
corpse-like face upon the funeral couch, in the other 
he is the mummy risen to his feet and reincorporated 
in the glorious body. These two characters were 
continued as the Corpus Christi and the risen Christ in 
Rome. Hence in the iconography of the catacombs the  
Egyptian mummy as Osiris-sahu, and as Horus the 
new— born solar child, are the demonstrators of the 
resurrection for the Christian faith, where there is no 
testimony whatever to an historical event. Any time 
during the last 10,years the mummy made for 
burial in the tomb was imaged in the likeness of Osiris 
in Amenta, who, though periodically buried, rose again 
for ever as the type of life eternal. In making the 
mummy of Osiris the Egyptians were also making an 
image of the god who rose again in spirit as Osiris- 
sahu or as Horus divinized, the risen Christ of the 
Osirian cult. When the lustrations were performed 
with water in Tattu and the anointings with oil in 
Abydos, it was what may be termed a mode of 
Christifying or making Horus the child of earth into 
Horus the son of god who became so in his baptism 
and anointing that were represented in the mysteries. 
The first Horus was born of the virgin, not begotten. 
The second Horus was begotten of the father, and the 
child was made a man of in his baptismal regeneration 
with the water and with unction, with the oil of a tree 
or the fat of a bull. 
We have now to show that in making the mummy 
the Egyptians were also making the typical Christ, 
which is the anointed. The word karas, kares, or karis 
in Egyptian signifies embalmment, to embalm, to 
anoint, to make the mummy. Kreas, creas, or chros, in 
Greek denotes the human body, a person or carcase, 
more expressly the flesh of it; eras, Gaelic and Irish, 
the body; Latin, corpus, for a dead body; these are all 
preceded by the word karas or karast, in Egyptian, 
with the risen mummy for determinative of the 
meaning. Each body that had been embalmed was 
karast, so to say, and made into a type of immortality 
in the likeness of Osiris-sahu or Horus, the prototypal 
Christ. It will be made apparent by degrees that the 
religion of the Chrestoi first began at Memphis with 
the cultus of the mummy in its two characters, which 
represented body and spirit, or Ptah in matter and 
KheperIu— em— hetep in spirit. Hence the hawk as 
bird of spirit issuing from the karast— mummy was an 
image of the resurrection. The origin of the Christ as 
the anointed or karast will explain the connection of 
the Christ name and that of the Christiani with 
unction and anointing. Horus the Karaite Christ was 
the anointed son. The oil upon his face was the sign of 
his divinity. This supplied a figure of the Christ to 
Paul when he says that for those who put on Christ 
there can be no male and female, for ye are one [man 
or mummy] in Christ Jesus Gal., iii. 28. The Christ 
was put on metaphorically in the process of 
anointing which originated with the making of the  
mummy. Whether the dead were represented by the 
bones invested with a coating of blood, of flesh- 
coloured earth, or by the eviscerated and desiccated 
body that was bandaged in the cloth of a thousand 
folds, the object was to preserve and perpetuate the 
deceased in some permanent form of personality. The 
Egyptians aimed at making the mummy imperishable 
and incorruptible, as an image of durability and 
continuity, a type of the eternal, or of Osiris-karast in 
the likeness of a mummy. Hence the swathe without a 
seam and of incredible length in which the mummy 
was enfolded to represent unending duration. Some of 
these have been unwound to the extent of seven or 
eight hundred yards, and one of them is described as 
being a thousand yards in length. But, however long, it 
was made without a seam. This vesture is alluded to in 
the chapter of the golden vulture. The chapter is to be 
inscribed for the protection of the deceased on the 
day of his burial in the cloth of a thousand folds Rit., 
ch. 1 3. 
This cloth was the seamless swathe of the Egyptian 
karast, which became the vesture or coat without a 
seam woven from the top throughout  John, xix. 
for the Christ. Even the poorest Egyptian, whose body 
was steeped in salt and natron and anointed with a 
little cedar oil, was wrapped in a single piece of linen  
equally with the mummy whose swathe was hundreds 
of yards in length, because the funeral vesture of 
Osiris, his body of matter, was without a seam. The 
dead are often called the bandaged ones. On rising 
from the tomb the deceased exclaims triumphantly, 
O my father! my sister! my mother Isisl I am freed 
from my bandages 1 I can see 1 I am one of those who 
are freed from their bandages to see Seb I. Seb 
denotes the earth, and the Manes is free to visit the 
earth again, this time as the ghost or double of his 
former self. Covering the corpse with the transparent 
tahn, or golden gum, was one way of turning the dead 
body into a type of the spiritual body which was 
imaged as the glorified. One cannot doubt that this 
was a mode of showing the transformation of the 
Osirian dead mummy into the luminous body called 
the sahu of Osiris when he was transfigured but still 
retained the mummy form in Amsu— Horus at his 
rising from the sepulchre. Mummies buried in the 
tomb at Medum had been thus enveloped. This was 
one form of investiture alluded to in the Ritual as 
distinguished from the mummy bandages. One of 
these mummies is now to be seen in the Royal College 
of Surgeons. The mode of embalming, says Prof. 
Petrie, was very singular. The body was shrunk, 
wrapped up in linen cloth, then modelled all over  
with resin  or tahn into the natural shape and 
plumpness of the living figure, completely restoring all 
the fullness of the form, and this was wrapped round 
with a few turns of the finest gauze. Petrie, Medum, 
Introduction, chapter pages and 18. There was 
no coffin present in the tomb. The mummy thus 
invested with the tahn had been buried in this 
primitive kind of glass case, in which the form and 
features could be seen either directly or by means of 
the modelling. The tahn, gum or resin, as a natural 
product from the tree, preceded glass, and would be 
fashioned for the earlier monstrance. Remodelling the 
dead in the likeness of the living form by means of the 
pellucid tahn is a mode of making the glorified body 
on earth that was imaged by the sahu in Amenta, and 
thus the mummy here attains the two-fold type of the 
Osiris Khat, or corpse, and the Osiris-sahu, or the 
glorified in spirit. In the Christian agglomerate of 
Egyptian doctrines and dogmas, rites and symbols, the 
pellucid tahn may, we think, be recognized in the 
sacred monstrance of the Roman ritual. This is a 
show-case in which the host or Corpus Christi is 
placed to be uplifted and exhibited. The eye of Horus 
is yet visible in the lanula or crescent— shaped crystal 
of the monstrance which holds the consecrated bread. 
The name of this show— case is derived from the Latin  
monstrare, to show, and this had been the object of 
the mummy makers in employing the transparent 
tahn. 
In the eschatological or final phase of the doctrine, 
to make the mummy was to make the typical 
anointed, also called the Messu, the Messiah, and the 
Christ. Mes or mas, in the hieroglyphics, signifies to 
anoint and to steep, as in making the mummy, and 
messu in Egyptian means the anointed; whence lah the 
Messu becomes Messiah in Hebrew. There was a 
previous form of the anointed in the totemic mysteries 
of young man making. When the boy attained the age 
of puberty he was made into the anointed one at the 
time of his initiation into the way of a man with a 
woman. It was a custom with certain Inner African 
tribes to slit the urethra of the boy and lubricate the 
member with palm oil. This was a primitive way of 
making the anointed at puberty. Australian aborigines 
are also known to slit the prepuce cover for the same 
purpose. At this stage of the mystery the anointed one 
is the adult youth who has attained the rank of 
begetter full of grace and favour, or is khemt, as it was 
rendered in Egyptian. Tertullian claims that the name 
of the Christians came from the unction received by 
Jesus Christ. This is in perfect keeping with the 
derivation of the typical Christ from the mummy  
which was anointed so abundantly with oil in its 
embalmment. It is said of the woman who anointed 
Jesus in Bethany/' in that she poured the ointment 
upon my body, she did it to prepare me for my burial  
Matt. xxvi. 12. She was preparing the mummy after 
the manner of Anup the embalmer, who prepared 
Osiris for his burial and resurrection. But it was only as 
a dead mummy and not a living man that the gnostic 
Jesus could have been embalmed for burial. 
We now proceed to show that Christ the anointed 
is none, other than the Osiris-karast, and that the 
karast mummy risen to its feet as Osiris-sahu was the 
prototypal Christ. Unhappily , these demonstrations 
cannot be made without a wearisome mass of detail. 
And we are bound for the bottom this time. Dr. 
Budge, in his book on the mummy, tells his readers 
that the Egyptian word for mummy is ges, which 
signifies to wrap up in bandages. But he does not point 
out that ges or kes, to embalm the corpse or make the 
mummy, is a reduced or abraded form of an earlier 
word, karas whence krst for the mummy. The 
original word written in hieroglyphics is ,.krst, whence 
kas, to embalm, to bandage, to knot, to make the 
mummy or karast Birch, Dictionary of the 
Hieroglyphics, pp. 415—Champollion, Gram. 
Egyptienne, 86.  
f^mm^M 
mmmmm^wrr. 
The Mummy-Babe, 
The word krs denotes the embalmment of the 
mummy, and the krst, as the mummy, was made in 
the process of preparation by purifying, anointing, and 
embalming. To karas the dead body was to embalm it, 
to bandage it, to make the mummy. The mummy was 
the Osirian Corpus Christi, prepared for burial as the 
laid-out dead, the karast by name. When raised to its 
feet, it was the risen mummy, or sahu. The place of 
embalmment was likewise the krs. Thus the process of 
making the mummy was to karas, the place in which 
it was laid is the karas, and the product was the krst, 
whose image is the upright mummy = the risen 
Christ. Hence the name of the Christ, Christos in 
Greek, Chrestus in Latin, for the anointed, was 
derived, as the present writer previously suggested, 
from the Egyptian word krst. Karas also signifies the 
burial-place, and the word modifies into Kas or Chas. 
Kasu the burial place was a name of the 14th Nome 
in Upper Egypt. A god Kas is mentioned three or four 
times in the Book of the Dead, the god Kas who is in  
the Tuat  ch. 40. This was a title of the mummy 
Osiris in the funerary dwelling. In one passage Kas is 
described as the deliverer or saviour from all mortal 
needs. In the chapter of raising the body it is 
said of the deceased that he had been hungry and 
thirsty on earth, but he will never hunger or thirst 
any more, for Kas delivers him and does away with 
wants like these. That is, in the resurrection. Here the 
name of the god Osiris-Kas written at full is Osiris the 
Karast — the Egyptian Christ. Not only is the risen 
mummy or sahu called the karast, Osiris as lord of the 
bier is the Neb-karast equivalent to the later Christ 
the Lord, and the lord of the bier is god of the 
resurrection from the house of death. The karast is 
literally the god or person who has been mummified, 
embalmed, and anointed or christified. Anup the 
baptizer and embalmer of the dead for the new life 
was the preparer of the karast— mummy. As John the 
Baptist is the founder of the Christ in baptism, so 
Anup was the christifier of the mortal Horus, he on 
whom the holy ghost descended as a bird when the 
Osiris made his transformation in the marriage 
mystery of Tat tu Rit., ch. . We read in the funeral 
texts of Anup- being Suten tu hetep, Anup, neb tser 
khent neter ta krast—d em set Birch, Funereal Text th Dynasty. Suten hept tu Anup tep-tuf khent 
neter ha am ut neb tser krast ef em as-ef en kar neter 
em set Amenta Birch, Funereal Stele of Ra—Khepr— 
Ka, 12th Dynasty. Anup gives embalmment, krast; he 
is lord over the place of embalmment, the kras ; the 
lord of embalming krast, who, so to say, makes the 
krast. The process of embalmment is to make the 
mummy. This was a type of immortality or rising 
again.Osiris is krast, or embalmed and mummified for 
the resurrection. Passage into life and light is made for 
the karast-dead through the embalmment of the good 
Osiris Rit., ch. i62-that is, through his being karast as 
the mummy type. Thus the Egyptian krast was the 
pre— Christian Christ, and the pictures in the Roman 
Catacombs preserve the proof. The passing of the 
karast into the Christ is depicted in the gnostic 
iconography. It is in the form of a child bound up in 
the swathings of a diminutive Egyptian mummy, with 
the halo and cross of the four quarters round its head, 
which show its solar origin. It is the divine infant 
which has the head of Ra in the Ritual who says, I am 
the babe; I renew myself, and I grow young again 
chs. and 43. The karast mummy is the type of 
resurrection in the Roman Catacombs because the 
karast was the prototypal Christ. It is the Egyptian 
karast as thing and word that supplied and will explain 
the Greek Christ, Christos, Krstos, or Latin Chrestus 
and account for the Corpus Christi, the anointed, the 
Saviour, doctrinally, typically, actually in every way 
except historically, and of that the karast, Krstos, or 
Christ is entirely independent. Henceforth, said a 
dignitary of the Church of England the other day, 
Christianity has done with the metaphysical Christ. 
But there is no physical Christ except the karast 
mummy, which was Osiris when laid out and lying 
down in death, and Horus of the resurrection standing 
up as Amsu risen from the sepulchre, having the whip 
hand over all the powers of darkness and the 
adversaries of his father. 
Say what you will or believe what you may, there is 
no other origin for Christ the anointed than for Horus 
the karast or anointed son of god the father. There is 
no other origin for a Messiah as the anointed than for 
the Masu or anointed. Finally, then, the mystery of the 
mummy is the mystery of the Christ. As Christian, it 
is allowed to be for ever inexplicable. As Osirian, the 
mystery can be explained. It is one of the mysteries of 
Amenta, with a more primitive origin in the rites of 
totemism. 
We now claim sufficient warrant for affirming that 
Christ the anointed is a mystical figure which 
originated as the Egyptian mummy in the twofold 
character of Osiris in his death and in his resurrection;  
as Osiris, or mortal Horus, the karast; and Osiris-sahu, 
or Horus divinized as the anointed son. The Christ or 
karast still continues to be made when the sacrament 
of extreme unction is administered to the dying as a 
Roman Catholic rite. Though but a shadow of the 
primitive reality, it perpetuates the sacred mystery of 
converting the corpse into the sahu, the 
transubstantiation of the inert Osiris by descent of Ra; 
the mortal Horus, child of the mother, into Horus the 
anointed son of god the father. Extreme unction, the 
seventh of the holy sacraments, is indeed a Christian 
rite. 
It will now be necessary to give an account of 
certain other mysteries of Amenta and doctrines of the 
Ritual. The Egyptians celebrated ten great mysteries 
on ten different nights of the year. The first was the 
night of the evening meal literally the last supper, 
and the laying of offerings on the altar. It is the night 
of provisioning the Lord's table. Osiris had been 
overcome by Sut and the Sebau, who had once more 
renewed their assault upon Un-nefer when they were 
defeated and exterminated by his faithful followers. 
Therefore this was also the night of the great battle 
when the moon god Taht and the children of light 
annihilated the rebellious powers of darkness. On the 
second night the overthrown Tat— Cross, with Osiris in 
it, or on it, was again erected by Horus, Prince of 
Sekhem, in the region of Tat tu, where the holy spirit 
Ra descends upon the mummy and the twain become 
united for the resurrection. On the third night the 
scene is in Sekhem; the mystery is that of the blind 
Horus or of Horus in the dark, who here receives his 
sight. It is also the mystery of dawn upon the coffin of 
Osiris. We might call it the mystery of Horus the 
mortal transfiguring into Horus the immortal. On the 
fourth night the four pillars are erected with which 
the future kingdom of god the father is to be founded. 
It is called the night of erecting the flag-staffs of 
Horus, and of establishing him as the heir of his 
father's property. The fifth scene is in the region of 
Rekhet, and the mystery is that of the two sisters with 
Isis watching in tears over her brother Osiris, and 
brooding above the dead body to give it the warmth 
of new life. On the sixth night the glorious ones are 
judged, the evil dead are parted off, and joy goeth its 
round in Thinnis. This is the night of the great festival 
named Ha—k—er—a, or Come thou to me, in which 
the blending of the two souls was solemnized as a 
glorious mystery by a festival at which there was 
much eating and drinking. The mystery of the seventh 
night was that of the great judgment on the highway 
of the damned, when the suit was closed against the  
rebels who had failed once more and were 
ignominiously defeated. After the verdict comes the 
avengement. The eighth is the night of the great 
hoeing in Tat tu, when the associates of Sut are 
massacred and the fields are manured with their blood. 
The ninth is called the night of hiding the body of 
him who is supreme in attributes. The mystery is that 
of collecting the remains of Osiris, whose body was 
mutilated and scattered piecemeal by Sut, and of 
hiding it. The mystery on the tenth night presents a 
picture of Anup, the embalmer, the anointer, or 
christifier of the mummy. This is in Rusta, the place of 
resurrection from Amenta. It may be the series is not 
in exact order, but that does not interfere with the 
nature of the mysteries. In each of the ten acts of the 
drama the suffering Osiris and the triumph over all his 
adversaries are portrayed as mysteries in a prototypal 
miracle-play or drama that was held to be divine. The 
chapter of these ten mysteries was recited 
penitentially for the purification of the Manes and the 
coming forth after death Rit., ch. rubric. With 
this we may compare the fact that the Jewish new 
year is ushered in with ten days of penitence. 
The altar or communion— table thus provisioned 
was the coffin lid. This also was continued in the ritual 
of Rome, for it is a fact that the earliest Christian altar  
was a coffin. According to Blunt's Dictionary of 
Doctrinal and Historical Theology p. 16, this was a 
hollow chest, on the lid or mensa of which the 
eucharist was celebrated. This, as Egyptian, was the 
coffin of Osiris that constituted the altar on which the 
provisions were laid in Sekhem for the eucharistic 
meal. Hence the resurrection is described as dawn 
upon the coffin of Osiris. Therefore he rose in spirit 
from the mummy in the coffin, beneath the lid which 
constituted the table. This was the body supposed to 
be eaten as the eucharist, which was represented by 
the provisions that were laid upon the altar for the 
sacramental meal. The first of the ten great mysteries 
is the mystery of the eucharist, and we find that the 
primitive Christian liturgies are all and wholly 
restricted to the eucharist as the one primordial 
sacrament of the Christian Church. The first of the 
Osirian mysteries is the primary Christian sacrament. 
Provisioning the altar was continued by the Church 
of Rome.'The mysteries laid upon the altar which 
preceded the communion of the body and blood of 
Christ were then eaten in the eucharistic meal. 
Neale, Rev. J. M., The Liturgies, Introd., p. 33. Thus 
we see in the camera obscura that the provisions laid 
on the altar or table represented the flesh and blood of 
the victim about to be eaten sacramentally. The night  
of the things that were laid upon the altar is the night 
of the great sacrifice, with Osiris as the victim. The 
things laid on the altar for the evening meal 
represented the body and blood of the Lord.These, as 
the bread and wine, or flesh and beer, were trans- 
elemented or transub-stantiated by the descent of Ra 
the holy spirit, which quickened and transformed the 
mummy Osiris into the risen sahu, the unleavened 
bread into the leavened, the water into wine. Osiris, 
the sacrifice, was the giver of himself as the food 
which never perishes. Rit., ch. . 
The Christian liturgies are reckoned to be the most 
pure sources of eucharistical doctrine. And liturgy 
appears to have been the groundwork of the Egyptian 
ritual. It is said by one of the priests Rit., ch. I , I am 
he who reciteth the liturgies of the soul who is lord of 
Tattu - that is, of Osiris who establishes a soul for 
ever in conjunction with Ra the holy spirit in the 
mysteries of Amenta. In one character Osiris was 
eaten as the Bull of Eternity, who gave his flesh and 
blood as sustenance for humanity, and who was the 
divine providence as the provider of food. The eating 
of the mother was also continued in the eucharist, 
Osiris being of both sexes. This was typically fulfilled 
in one way by converting the bull into an ox. The 
duality was also imaged in the bread and beer or wine, 
which is the mother blood in a commuted guise. It is 
said of the body that was eaten in the Roman 
mysteries that it is the body which bestows on us, 
out of its wounds, immortality and life, and the beatific 
vision with the angels, and food and drink, and life and 
light, the very bread of life, the true light, eternal life, 
Christ. Jesus. Wherefore this entrance symbolizes at 
the same time both the second advent of Christ and 
His sepulture, for it is He who will be our beatific 
vision in the life to come, as Horus of the second 
sight, all of which was portrayed of Osiris and fulfilled. 
Neale, The Liturgies, Introd., p. 30. Blood sacrifice 
from the beginning was an offering of life, hence the 
life offering. When the mother was the victim her 
blood was offered as life to the ancestral spirits. It was 
also life to the brotherhood, and partaking of it in 
communion constituted the sacrament. So in the 
Christian eucharist the blood is taken to be the life, 
and is partaken of as the life, the life of the world 
Neale, Liturgy of Basil the Great, the divine life that 
is the life everlasting, the new life that is for ever 
Neale, Liturgy of St. Chrysostom, ii.. The bread 
broken in the Christian sacrament represents a body 
that was broken, immolated, and divided. This does 
not apply to the body of Jesus, according to the 
history. But it does apply to the body of Osiris,  
which was broken, immolated, and divided by Sut, 
who tore it into fourteen fragments. The altar table, or 
coffin lid, was provisioned with these parts of the 
broken body to be typically eaten as the eucharist on 
the night when there are at the coffin the thigh, the 
head, the heel, and the leg of Un-nefer. Moreover, 
when the mother was eaten as the sacrifice, the flesh 
and blood were warm with life. She was not eaten in 
cold blood. It was the same with the Meriah of the 
Kolarians, and also with the totemic animal. The 
efficacy lay in the flesh being eaten alive, and the 
blood being drunk whilst it was warm with life which 
constituted the living sacrifice. This type of sacrifice 
was also continued in the Christian eucharist. Hot 
water was at one time poured into the chalice with the 
wine at the consecration of the elements, to give it the 
warmth of life Neale, Liturgy of St. Chrysostom, p. 120. 
Even the act of tearing the flesh of the victim's body 
piecemeal is piously perpetuated by the breaking 
instead of cutting the bread for the Christian 
sacrament. The lights upon the coffin of Osiris are 
represented in the Roman ritual by a double taper, the 
dikerion, reputed to signify the advent of the Holy 
Spirit, which corresponds to the descent of Ra the 
holy spirit on the inert body of Osiris in Tattu, where  
the two souls are blended to become one in Horus of 
the resurrection. 
The flabellum or fan is a mystical emblem in the 
Egyptian mysteries. For one thing, it signified the 
shade or spirit. Fans are frequently portrayed for souls 
of a primitive type. Birch, Trans. Soc. Bib. Arch., vol. 
viii., p. 386. Souls burning in the hells are imaged by 
flabella. These fans were brought on in the Oriental 
Church. In the Clementine liturgy they are ordered to 
be made of peacocks' feathers Neale, p. Introd., 
pp. 30. They are called fans of the Holy Spirit, and 
were carried in procession with the veil that was 
wrapped about the body of the Lord Jesus like the 
folds of gauze that were wrapped round the mummy 
at Medum. But the fan or shade = spirit had been 
reduced in status, and was then used as a flapper for 
whisking the flies away from the sacrifice Durandus, 
iv, 33-Neale, Introduction, page 29. It is not 
pretended that the second advent is historical, 
nevertheless it is portrayed in the mystery of the 
eucharist by the descent of the Holy Spirit. The 
second advent is the coming forth of Horus in spirit 
from the mummy or corpse which was his image in 
the human form.The first is in being made flesh and 
putting on the likeness of mortality, the second is in 
making his transformation into a spirit, as the type of  
immortality. The marriage of Cupid and Psyche is a 
fable that was founded on this union of the two souls 
which we have traced in the Ritual as the soul in 
matter, or the human soul, and the soul in spirit. 
Cupid, under another name, is Eros, whilst Eros and 
Anteros are a form of the double Horus, Eros in spirit, 
Anteros in matter, and the blending of the two in the 
mysteries was the marriage of Cupid and Psyche in the 
mystery of Tattu. Now here is another of those many 
mysteries which have no origin in historic Christianity. 
The agape was celebrated in connection with the 
eucharist. This was not founded at the time of the Last 
Supper, nevertheless it was held to be a Christian 
sacrament. Paul in speaking of the love-feast at 
Corinth as a scene of drunken revelry Cor. ii. 2, recognizes the celebration of two suppers, which 
he is desirous of having kept apart, one for the church, 
and one for the house. These two are the eucharist and 
the agape. Ecclesiastical writers differ as to which of 
the two ought to be solemnized first, but there is no 
question that two were celebrated in connection with 
each other. In his attack on the licentiousness of the 
Christian agape Tertullian asks the wives, Will not 
your husbands know what it is you secretly take 
before other food? and again, Who will without 
anxiety endure her absence all night long at the Pascal  
solemnities?. Who will without some suspicion of 
his own let her go to attend that Lord's banquet which 
they defame? Keating, Y. F., The Agape and the 
Eucharist, p. 70. As Egyptian, we can identify the two, 
and thus infer the order in which they stood to each 
other. Whether both were called suppers or not, the 
Egyptians celebrated the last supper of Osiris on the 
last night of the old year, and the mesiu, or the 
evening meal, on the first night of the new year. And 
this duality was maintained by the gnostics and 
continued by the Christians. These are two of the 
Osirian mysteries, and in the list of the ten great 
mysteries there are two nights of provisioning the altar 
- that is, two nights of a feast or memorial supper. 
One is held in Annu, the other in Sekhem, with the 
resurrection in Tattu coming between the two. In 
Sekhem the blind Horus receives his sight, or his 
beatific vision of the divine glory, which was seen 
when he had pierced the veil hawk-headed in the 
image of Ra. Provisioning the altar in Sekhem is 
designated dawn upon the coffin of Osiris Rit., ch. 8. The eucharist was a form of the mortuary meal in 
which the death of Osiris was commemorated by the 
eating of the body and the drinking of the blood. The 
agape, or phallic feast, was a mode of celebrating the 
re— arising of Horus, Prince of Sekhem, as portrayed by 
the re— erection of the Tat. This accounts for the 
sexual orgie of the agape, a primitive form of which 
was acted by the Eskimo in the festival of 
reproduction. In their mysteries this was the 
reproduction of food. In the Egyptian it was the 
regeneration and resurrection of the soul that was 
celebrated at the agape. The death, of course, came 
first. This was on the night of the great sacrifice, and 
the eucharist was eaten in commemoration. Then 
followed the triumph in Tattu and the regenesis of the 
soul, which was acted by the holy kiss or blending of 
the sexes in the feast of love, as a dramatic rendering 
of this union betwixt the human nature and divine, or 
of the brother and sister, Shu and Tefnut. In the 
totemic mysteries of young man making begettal was 
included in the modus operandi, and in this the women 
invoked the spirit of the male for the new birth. The 
phallic festival of promiscuous intercourse still 
survived when the mysteries became religious, 
whether in Egypt, Greece, or Rome. In these Osiris 
was resuscitated as Horus the only begotten son, the 
women being the begetters or regenerators. In the 
evocations of Isis and Nephthys we hear them calling 
on the lost Osiris to come back to them in the person 
of the son. They plead that the lamp of life may be 
relighted, or more literally that the womb may be  
replenished. Come to thine abode, god An, they cry. 
Beloved of the Adytum! Come to Kha a name of 
phallic significance, oh, fructifying Bull. This is in 
the beneficent formulae that were made by the two 
divine sisters, Isis and Nephthys, to effect the 
resurrection of Osiris, which are said to have been 
composed by them on the twenty-fifth day of the 
month Koiak, December 22nd. They are magical 
evocations of the god addressed to the inert Osiris, 
who is caused to rise again by Isis in his ithyphallic 
form.Most pathetic in its primitiveness is the picture 
of the two divine sisters, or mothers, Isis and 
Nephthys, watching by the dead or inert brother who 
is Osiris in death and Horus in his resurrection, 
crooning their incantations, brooding bird— like over 
the germ of life in the egg, and breathing out the very 
soul of their own life in yearning for him, until the 
first token of returning consciousness is given, the 
earliest sign of the resurrection is made in response to 
the vitalizing warmth of their affection. These 
evocations follow the night of the last supper and the 
battle with Sut and the Sebau. Oh, come to thine 
abode! the two dear sisters cry. Come to thy sister! 
Come to thy wife! Come to thy spouse! they plead 
whilst stretching out their longing arms for his 
embrace. Oh, excellent Sovereign, come to thine  
abode. Rejoice; all thine enemies are annihilated. Thy 
two sisters are near to thee, protecting thy funeral 
couch, calling thee in weeping, thou who art prostrate 
on thy funeral bed. Thou seest our tender solicitude. 
Speak to us, Supreme Ruler, our Lord. Chase away all 
the anguish which is in our hearts. These in the 
funeral scenes are the two women watching in the 
tomb [Records, vol. ii.,119. Then was the only son of 
god begotten of the holy spirit Ra. The pair of souls 
were blended in the Horus of a soul that was to live 
for ever, or to taste eternal life. The marriage rite was 
acted, and the marriage feast was celebrated in this 
prototypal ceremony that was continued in the Agape 
of the Osirian and the Christian cult. 
The Christian dogma of a physical resurrection 
founded on the historic fact of a dead corpse rising 
from the grave can be explained as one of the Kamite 
mysteries which were reproduced as miracles in the 
Gospels. If we take the original representation in the 
solar mythos, the sun in the under-world, the 
diminished, unvirile, impotent or suffering sun was 
imaged as Ans-Ra, the solar god bound up in linen, as 
the mummified Osiris. The type remained for 
permanent use, but when the transformation had been 
effected the mummy vanished. The sepulchre was 
empty. The sun of winter or of night did not remain in Hades. Neither did it come forth as the dead body or 
unbreathing mummy of Osiris. Osiris, the hidden god 
in the earth of Amenta, does not come forth at all 
except in the person of the risen Horus, who is the 
manifestor for the ever— hidden father. To issue thus 
he makes his transfiguration which constitutes the 
mystery, not the miracle, of the resurrection. Osiris 
defecates and spiritualizes. The mummy as corpus is 
transubstantiated into the sahu, the mortal Horus into 
the immortal, and the physical mummy disappears. 
But it did not disappear because the living Horus rose 
up and walked off with the dead body of Osiris. When 
the transformation took place the type was changed in 
a moment, in the twinkling of an eye. The mummy 
Osiris transubstantiates, and makes his transformation 
into Osiris-sahu. As the Ritual expresses it, he is 
renewed in an instant in this second birth  ch. . 
The place was empty where the mummy had lain 
upon the bier, and the body was not found. This 
change is described when it is said in the litany of Ra, 
he raises his soul and hides his body. Thus the body 
was hidden in the resurrection of the soul. Hiding his 
body is consequently a name of Horus, emanating 
from Hes as a babe in the renewal of Osiris. 
Concealing the body of dead matter was one way of 
describing the transubstantiation in texture and the transfiguration in form. This was one of the greater 
mysteries. 
When Horus rent the veil of the tabernacle he had 
become hawk-headed, and consequently was a spirit 
in the divine likeness of Ra the holy ghost. Therefore 
the tabernacle was the body or mummy, the veil of 
flesh Neale, Liturgy of St. James, pp. 46-from 
which he had emerged. The speaker in the Ritual says, 
I am the hawk in the tabernacle, and I pierce through 
the veil - that is, when he is invested with the soul of 
Horus and disrobes himself of the mummy Rit., ch. Renouf or the veil which represented the flesh, as 
did the veil of gauze when folded round the mummy 
in the pyramid at Medum. The holy veil was carried 
in the Christian mysteries, together with the holy 
gifts and fans of the spirit, and this is said to 
represent the veil that was wrapped about the body 
of the Lord Jesus Neale, The Liturgies, Introduction, 
page Prayer of the Veil. This in the Liturgy of 
St. James, Neale, page is the veil of the flesh of 
Christ, therefore the veil of the body or temple of the 
spirit that was rent in the resurrection by Horus when 
he pierced through the veil. He rends or pierces 
through the veil, saying, I am the hawk in the 
tabernacle, and I pierce through the veil. Here is 
Horusl who comes forth to the day as a hawk  ch. . In the form of a divine hawk the risen one is 
revealed and goes forth as a spirit. In the Gospel the 
loud cry is immediately followed by the going forth as 
a spirit. And behold, the veil of the sanctuary was 
rent in twain from the top to the bottom. And the 
earth did quake, and the rocks were rent and the 
tombs were opened, and many bodies of the saints 
that had fallen asleep were raised Matt, xxvii. 45-53. 
Horus now takes his seat at the table of his father 
Osiris, with those who eat bread in Annu. He gives 
breath to the faithful dead who are raised by him, he 
who is the resurrection and the life. The same scene is 
apparently reproduced by John. Jesus makes his 
apparition to the disciples at what looks like the 
evening meal, although the meal is not mentioned. 
Jesus is the breather. He breathed on them and said, 
Receive ye the Holy Spirit — which in the Ritual is 
the breath of Atum-Ra, the father, imparted by lu the 
son, or by Horus to the faithful dead.The scene has 
now been changed from Amenta to the earth of Seb 
by those who made historic mockery of the Egyptian 
Ritual, and sank the meaning out of sight where it has 
been so long submerged. More of this hereafter. 
Enough at present to indicate the way that things are 
tending. In this divine drama natural realities are 
represented with no perniciously destructive attempt to conceal the characters under a mask of history. 
Majestically moving in their own might of pathetic 
appeal to human sympathy, they are simply 
represented for what they may be worth when rightly 
apprehended. But so tremendous was this tragedy in 
the Osirian mysteries, so heart— melting the legend of 
divinest pity that lived on with its rootage in Amenta 
and its flowerage in the human mind, that an historic 
travesty has kept the stage and held the tearful gaze of 
generation after generation for nineteen hundred years. 
Amenta, the earth of eternity, is the land of the 
mysteries where Taht, the moon god, in the nether 
night was the great teacher of the sacred secrets 
together with the seven wise masters. The passage 
through Amenta is a series of initiations for the Osiris 
deceased. He is inducted into the mysteries of Rusta 
X 9/ the mysteries of the Tuat 27, the 
mysteries of Akar 3. He knows the mysteries 
of Nekhen I I. Deceased invokes the god who 
dwells in all mysteries I; deceased learns the 
mystery of the father god Atum, who becomes his 
own son 15,46; he is the mysterious of form 
and the mysterious of face, like Osiris 133,9. I shine 
in the egg, says the deceased, in the land of the 
mysteries. Chapter contains the most secret, most 
sacred, the greatest of all mysteries. Its name is the book of the hidden dwelling-that is, the book of 
Amenta or the ritual of the resurrection. Obscure as 
these mysteries may seem, on account of the form- 
that of dramatic monologue and soliloquy-and the 
brevity of statement, we can recognize enough to 
know that these are the originals of all the other 
mysteries, Gnostic, Kabalistic, Masonic, or Christian. 
The dogma of the incarnation was an Egyptian 
mystery. Baptismal regeneration, transfiguration, 
transubstantiation, the resurrection and ascension, 
were all Egyptian mysteries. The mystery of an ever- 
virgin mother; the mystery of a boy at twelve years of 
age transforming suddenly into an adult of thirty years, 
and then becoming one with the father, as it had been 
earlier in the mysteries of totemism; the mystery in 
which the dead body of Osiris is transubstantiated into 
the living Horus by descent of the bird-headed holy 
spirit; the mystery of a divine being in three persons, 
one of which takes flesh on earth as the human Horus, 
to become a mummy as Osiris in Amenta, and to rise 
up from the dead in spirit as Ra in heaven. These and 
other miracles of the Christian faith were already 
extant among the mysteries of Amenta. But the 
meaning of the mysteries could only be known whilst 
the genuine gnosis was authentically taught. This had 
ceased when the Christian Sarcolatrae took possession of the Word-made- flesh, and literalized the 
mystical drama as a more tangible— looking human 
history, that was set forth in the very latest of the 
Gospels as a brand-new revelation sent from God, and 
personally conducted in Palestine by the historic 
Jesus. 
When Bendigo, the pugilist, became converted he 
proposed to take up preaching as his new profession. 
And when it was objected that he didn't know 
anything and couldn't read or write, he replied that he 
expected to pick up a good deal by listening round. 
So was it with the early Christians. They could neither 
read nor write the ancient language, but they picked 
up a good deal by listening round. You have your 
man upon the cross, said one of them to the Romans; 
why do you object to ours? Their man upon the 
cross being identical with Osiris- Tat or the ass- 
headed lu. It is said of Taht as a teacher of the 
mysteries, And now behold Taht in the secret of his 
mysteries. He maketh purifications and endless 
reckonings, piercing the firmament and dissipating the 
storms around him and so it cometh to pass that the 
Osiris hath reached every station, and, we may add, 
attained his immortality through the teachings 
communicated in the mysteries of Taht Rit., ch. 
Renouf. The 148th chapter of the Ritual recounts some of the most secret mysteries. It was written to 
furnish the gnosis or knowledge necessary for the 
Manes to get rid of his impurities and acquire 
perfection in the bosom of Ra the holy spirit. 
At the entrance to the mysterious valley of the Tuat 
there is a walled-up doorway, the first door of twelve 
in the passage of Amenta. These twelve are described 
in the Book of Hades as twelve divisions 
corresponding to the twelve hours of darkness during 
the nocturnal journey of the sun. The first division has 
no visible door of entrance. The rest have open doors, 
and the twelfth has double doors. It is hard to enter, 
but made easy for the exit into the land of eternal life. 
Here is the mystery: how to enter where there is no 
door and the way is all unknown? I t is explained to 
the Manes how divine assistance is to be obtained. 
When the stains of life on earth are effaced the 
strength is given for forcing the entrance where there 
is no door, and in that power the Manes penetrates 
with or as the god Rit., ch. 3. Thus Horus 
was the door in the darkness, the way where no 
entrance was seen, the life portrayed for the Manes in 
death. The secret entrance was one of the mysteries of 
Amenta. It was known as the door of the stone, 
which name was given to their Necropolis by the 
people at Siut, the stone that revolved when the magical word or open sesame was spoken. The 
entrance to the Great Pyramid was concealed by 
means of a movable flagstone that turned on a pivot 
which none but the initiated could detect. This, when 
tilted up, revealed a passage four feet in breadth and 
three and a half feet in height into the interior of the 
building. This was a mode of entrance applied to 
Amenta as the blind doorway that was represented by 
the secret portal and movable stone of later legends. 
The means of entrance through what appeared to be a 
blank wall was by knowing the secret of the nicely- 
adjusted stone, and this secret was communicated to 
the initiates with the pass-word in the mysteries. 
Horus begins his work by carrying out the divine plans 
of his father Osiris on earth. He makes firm the 
battlements to protect Osiris against the assaults of all 
the powers of darkness. He makes the word of Osiris 
truth against his enemies. He opposes Sut, his father's 
adversary, to the death. He makes war upon the evil 
Apap, that old serpent, and overthrows the powers 
that rise up in rebellion, which are called the rebels in 
the Ritual, who are ever doomed to failure in the fight 
betwixt them and the father, who is now represented 
by Horus his beloved son, Horus of the resurrection, 
who is himself the door in death as the means of 
entrance to Amenta. He covers the naked body of the breathless one. He opens the fountains of refreshment 
for the god of the non— beating heart  ch. I . He 
wages battle on the eater of the arm  ch. II and the 
black boar Sut, two types of the power of dearth, 
death, and darkness. He protects his father from the 
devouring crocodiles ch. 32, from the serpents Rerek, 
Seksek, and Haiu, also from the apshait, an insect that 
preys upon the buried mummy chs. 36. He 
says, I have come myself and delivered the god in his 
dismembered condition. I have healed the trunk and 
fastened the shoulder and made firm the leg ch. 102, 
t..e., in reconstructing the mummy. He restores to 
Osiris his sceptre, his pedestal, and his staircase from 
the tomb ch. 128. He says, I have done according to 
the command that I should come forth in Tattu, to see 
Osiris  ch. 78. He has kept the commandment that 
w as given him by the father. The Manes in Amenta 
tell of the fortunes of that great son whom the father 
loveth, and how he had pierced Sut to the heart, 
and how they had seen the death. They also tell of 
the divine plans which were carried out by Horus, in 
the absence of his father, when he represented Osiris 
on the earth ch. 78. With his work accomplished, 
both on earth and in Amenta, Horus of the 
resurrection goes to see his father, and they embrace 
each other. Horus addresses his father, here called Ra- Unnefer— Osiris— Ra. He exclaims: Hail, Osiris 1 I am 
thy son Horus; I have come. I have avenged thee. I 
have struck down thy enemies. I have destroyed all 
that was wrong in thee. I have killed him who assailed 
thee. I stretched forth my hand for thee against thy 
adversaries. I have brought thee the companions of Sut 
with chains upon them. I have ploughed for thee the 
fields. I have irrigated for thee thy land. I have hoed 
for thee the ground. I have built for thee the lakes of 
water. I have turned up the soil of thy possessions. I 
have made for thee sacrifices of thy adversaries. I have 
made sacrifices for thee of thy cattle and thy victims. I 
have bound thy enemies in their chains. I have sowed 
for thee wheat and barley in the field of Aarru. I have 
mowed them there for thee. I have glorified thee. I 
have anointed thee with the offering of holy oil. I have 
established for thee thy offerings of food on the earth 
for ever. Rit., ch. excerpt from Naville's 
rendering in Renouf s Book of the Dead. All this and 
more he claims to have done. I have given thee Isis 
and Nephthys. The twO divine sisters, the consorts of 
Osiris, the mothers and protectors of Horus, are thus 
brought back by him to the father. They have been 
with him from the beginning on earth in the hall of 
Seb; with him in his conception and incarnation by Isis 
and his nursing by Nephthys. They were his ministering angels, in attendance on him as protectors 
from the cut-throat Sut, or the monster Apap, who 
sought to slay the child or destroy it in the egg; with 
him in the agony of his blindness when torn and 
bleeding in the garden of Pa; with him as watchers in 
the tomb until he wakes; with him in his resurrection 
from Amenta. They are with him when he ascends to 
the father as conqueror of death, as ruler of the double 
earth and lord of the kingdom which he and his 
disciples or children have established for ever.The 
work attributed to Horus the divine exemplar, was to 
be fulfilled by his followers in the double earth of 
time and eternity. That was the object of the 
mysteries. It is in the character of the divine Horus 
that the human Nebseni says to Osiris, Thou one 
God, behold me. I am Horus thy son. I have fought for 
thee. I have fought on thy behalf for justice, truth, and 
righteousness. I have overcome thine adversaries. He 
also claims to have done the things that Horus did as 
set forth in the writings or represented in the drama, 
and thus fulfilled the ideal of self— sacrificing sonship in 
very reality, making -the word of Osiris truth against 
his enemies. And it was but the word even when 
personified, which to be of any actual efficacy must be 
made truth in human life, in conduct, and in character 
Pap. of Nebseni. Rit., ch. Budge . If there be any revelation or inspiration in a great 
ideal dramatically portrayed, the Egyptians found it in 
their divine model set forth in Horus : 
Horus the saviour, who was brought to birth 
As light in heaven and sustenance on earth. 
Horus in spirit, verily divine, 
Who came to turn the water into wine. 
Horus, who gave his life, and sowed the seed 
For men to make the bread of life indeed. 
Horus the comforter, who did descend 
In human fashion as the heavenly friend. 
Horus the word, the founder in his youth. 
Horus, fulfiller as the word made truth. 
Horus the lord and leader in the fight 
Against the dark powers of the ancient night. 
Horus the sufferer with his cross bowed down, 
Who rose at Easter with his double crown. 
Horus the pioneer, who paved the way 
Of resurrection to eternal day. 
Horus triumphant with the battle done, 
Lord of two worlds, united and made one. 
It was the object of their loftiest desires to grow in 
his likeness whilst looking lovingly upon his features, 
listening to his word, and fulfilling his character in 
their own personal lives. A mythical model may be no more than an air— blown bladder for learning to swim 
by. The reality lies in learning to swim. This was how 
the ideal Horus served the Egyptians. They did not 
expect him to swim for them and carry them and 
their belongings as well but learned to swim for 
themselves. 
There is nothing in all poetry considered as the 
flower of human reality more pathetic than the figure 
of Horus in Sekhem.He has grappled with the Apap of 
evil and wrestled with Sut-the de-vil or. Satan-and 
been overthrown in the passage of absolute darkness. 
Blind and bleeding from many wounds, he continues 
to fight with death itself; he conquers, rises from the 
grave like a warrior with one arm! Not that he has lost 
an arm; he has only got one arm free from the bonds 
of death, the bandages of the mummy made for the 
burial. But he lives, he rises again triumphant, lifting 
the sign of the Dominator aloft; and in the next stage 
of transformation he will be altogether freed from the 
trammels of the mummy to become pure spirit, in the 
likeness of the father as the express image of his 
person. 
It is a common Christian belief, continually iterated, 
that life and immortality were brought to light, and 
death, the last enemy, was destroyed, by a personal 
Jesus only nineteen centuries ago, whereas the same revelation had been accredited to Horus the anointed 
and to Iu-su the coming son for thousands of years 
before, with Horus or Iu-su as the impersonal and 
ideal revealer who was the Messiah in the 
astronomical mythology and the Son of God in the 
eschatology. The doctrine of immortality is so ancient 
in Egypt that the Book of Vivifying the Soul for 
Ever/' said over a figure of the enlightened dead , was 
not only extant some 6,years ago in the time of 
Husapti, fifth king of the first dynasty, it was then so 
old that the true tradition of interpretation was at that 
time already lost.The Egyptian Christ- Jesus or Horus, 
as revealer of immortality, was the ideal figure of a 
fact known to the ancient spiritualists, that the soul of 
man or the Manes persisted beyond death and the 
dissolution of the present body, and the drama of the 
mysteries was their modus operandi for teaching the 
fact, with Horus or Iu-su as typical manifestor. In 
this character he was set forth as the first fruits of 
them that slept, the only one that came forth from the 
mummy on earth, as the sahu mummy in Amenta; the 
only one, however, as a type that prefigured potential 
continuity for all, the doctrine being founded on the 
ghost as the phenomegal apparition of an eternal 
reality. The Egyptians, who were the authors of the 
mysteries and mythical representation., did not pervert 
the meaning by an ignorant lateralization of mystical 
matters, and had no fall of man to encounter in the 
fallacious Christian sense. Consequently they had no 
need of a redeemer from the effects of that which had 
never occurred. They did not rejoice over the death of 
their suffering saviour because his agony and shame 
and bloody sweat were falsely supposed to rescue 
them from the consequences of broken laws; on the 
contrary, they taught that everyone created his own 
karma here, and that the past deeds made the future 
fate. The morality was a thousandfold loftier and 
nobler than that of Christianity, with its delusive 
doctrine of vicarious atonement and propitiation by 
proxy. Horus did such or such things for the glory of 
his father, but not to save the souls of men from 
having to do them. There was no vicarious salvation or 
imputed righteousness. Horus was the justifier of the 
righteous, not of the wicked. He did not come to save 
sinners from taking the trouble to save themselves. He 
was an exemplar, a model of the divine sonship; but 
his followers must conform to his example, and do in 
life as he had done before they could claim any 
fellowship with him in death. Except ye do these things yourselves, there is no passage, no opening of 
the gate, to the land of life everlasting. 
The Christian cult is often said to be founded on 
the mysteries of the incarnation. But what teacher of 
the spurious mysteries has ever been able to tell us 
anything of their natural genesis? What has any 
bibliolator ever known about the word that was in the 
beginning? The word which issued out of Silence? The 
word of life that came by water, by blood, and in the 
Spirit? For him such language has never been related 
to any phenomena extant in nature. The wisdom of 
old Egypt only can explain the typical word and its 
relationship to a so-called revelation. The doctrine of 
the incarnation is Egyptian, and to the Egyptian 
wisdom we must appeal if we would understand it. 
No other word was ever made flesh in any other way 
than in Horus, who was the logos of the Mother 
Nature as the Child-Horus, the khart, or inarticulate 
logos, and the word that was made truth in the adult 
phase of his character as Horus Mat-Kheru, the 
second Horus, the 
paraclete and direct representative of the father in 
heaven. The incarnation, which is looked upon as a 
central mystery of the Christian cult, had no origin and 
can have no adequate or proper explanation in 
Christianity. Its real origin, like those of the other Egyptian dogmas and doctrines, was purely natural; it 
was prehistorical and non-personal, and as the mystery 
of Horus and his virgin mother, who were equally 
prehistorical and non— historical, it had been the 
central mystery of the Egyptian faith for ages, utilized 
by the ancient teachers for all it ever was or could be 
worth, and was continued by the teachers of historic 
Christianity in ignorance of its origin and only true 
significance, or with a criminally culpable suppression 
of the gnosis by which alone the inexplicable latter- 
day mysteries could have been explained. 
The primitive mysteries were founded on the facts 
in nature which are verifiable today as from the first, 
whereas the mysteries of the Christian theology have 
been manufactured, shoddy-like, from the leavings of 
the past by the modus operandi of miracle. These 
remain today unverified because they are for ever 
unverifiable; We know how Horus came by water on 
his papyrus; how then did he come by blood? The 
child had been incorporated in the fish, the shoot, the 
branch, the beetle, calf, or Iamb, as the representative 
type; and in his incarnation, Horus came by blood, but 
not by the blood shed on a tree, or the tat-cross. He 
came to earth by blood as representative of the human 
soul that came by blood. The Ritual tells us that the 
gods issued out of silence ch. 24: This was portrayed in the Osirian system when the infant Horus is 
depicted pointing with his finger to his mouth, making 
the sign of silence as it was understood in all the 
mysteries. Horus is not the ordinary child or khart of 
the hieroglyphics. He images the logos, the word of 
silence, the virgin's word, that gave a dumb or 
inarticulate utterance to the mystery of the 
incarnation. The doctrine of the incarnation had been 
evolved and established in the Osirian religion at least ,and possibly 10,years before it was 
purloined and perverted in Christianity. It was so 
ancient that the source and origin had been forgotten 
and the direct means of proof lost sight of or 
obliterated except amongst the gnostics, who sacredly 
preserved their fragments of the ancient wisdom, their 
types and symbols and no doubt, with here and there a 
copy of some chapters of the Book of the Dead done 
into Greek or Aramaic by Alexandrian scribes. The 
doctrine of salvation by the blood of Isis connoted the 
idea of coming into existence by means of the 
mother's blood, or mystically the blood of the virgin 
mother. In primitive biology all birth and production 
of human life was first derived from the mother's 
blood, which was 
afterwards informed by the soul of the fatherhood. 
The lesson first taught by nature was that life came by blood. Procreation could not occur until the female 
was pubescent. Therefore blood was the sign of source 
as the primary creative human element. Child— Horus 
came by the blood of the virgin Isis, in that and no 
other way. Jesus, the gnostic Christ, also came by 
blood that way, not only according to the secret 
doctrine of John, for the Musselmans have preserved a 
fragment of the true gnosis. In the notes to ch. of 
the Koran, Sale quotes the Arabic tradition that Jesus 
was not born like any other men from blood 
concreted into flesh, but came in the flow, or in the 
flowing blood- -that was, in the virgin's blood first 
personalized in Horus, who was made flesh as the 
virgin.'s child. The doctrine of the incarnation was 
dependent on the soul of life originating in the mother 
blood, the first that was held specifically and 
exclusively human on account of its incarnation. This 
was the soul derived from a mother who was the 
mystical virgin in biology, and who was afterwards 
mystified by theology as the mother of god, the eternal 
virgin typified in the likeness of the totemic. The 
blood mother had been cognized sociologically the 
virgin. Thence came the doctrine of a virgin mother as 
a type. Blood was the mother of a soul now 
differentiated from the external souls as human. First 
the white vulture of the virgin Neith, next the red heifer of the virgin I sis, then the human virginity, 
supplied the type of an eternal virgin, she in whom 
the mystery of maternal source was divinized as the 
virgin mother in the eschatology. 
Thus incarnation proper begins with the soul that 
came into being by means of the virgin blood. This 
was the child of the mother only, the unbegotten 
Horus, w ho was an imperfect first sketch of the soul 
in matter that assumed the form of human personality 
as Horus the mortal, who as blind and maimed, deaf 
and dumb and impotent, because it was a birth of 
matter or the mother only, according to the mythical 
representation. The mother being the source and 
sustenance of life with her own blood, this led to a 
doctrine of salvation by the blood of Isis the divinized 
virgin. Thus the mystical blood mother was the 
earliest saviour, not the male. The elder Horus was her 
child who came by blood. He was her blood child in 
the eschatology; hence the calf, as his type, was 
painted red upon the tablets. As the Child-Horus he 
was an image of her suffering in the human form; 
thence Horus the child of blood became a saviour 
through suffering, in a mystery which had a natural 
origin. This origin can be followed in the Christian 
iconography when, as Didron shows, a figure of Jesus 
was portrayed upon the cross, as a little child of two years, naked, and with its body painted red all over, as 
was the Horus-calf upon the tablets. A curious 
instance of salvation by the blood of Isis is given in the 
Ritual. In a vignette to ch. the saving and 
protecting power of the red tet-buckle, which is an 
image of the blood of Isis, is shown. A pair of human 
hands are outstretched from this amulet to grasp the 
arms of the Manes and prevent him from going 
toward the east, as that way lies the tank of flame, or 
hell in modern phrase. In the Gospel account of the 
incarnation the word was made flesh, but the blood 
basis of the doctrine has been omitted. Salvation 
through the blood of Isis was imaged by the red tet- 
amulet that was put on by her when she had 
conceived her blood child. This salvation was effected 
when the child was brought into existence. According 
to the Ritual, the salvation of the Manes is in living- 
on hereafter. He pleads that he may live and be saved 
after death  ch. , and he wore the tet-buckle in 
his coffin as the sign of his salvation by the blood of 
Isis. 
Further, how did a purificatory power come to be 
associated with blood so that one of the horrible 
dogmas of later theology could be expressed in lines 
like these : — There is a fountain filled with blood 
Drawn from Immanuel's veins, 
And sinners plunged beneath that flood 
Lose all their guilty stains? 
The natural genesis of such a monstrous doctrine 
can be traced on two lines of descent. One of these has 
its starting— point in the theological victim being slain 
as a scapegoat in a sacrifice that was held to be 
piacular. The blood of the sin offering thus acquired 
the character of the atoning blood. According to the 
Christian doctrine, All things are cleansed with blood, 
and apart from the shedding of blood there is no 
remission Heb. ix., 22. On the other line of descent, 
the idea of purification by blood was derived from a 
human origin, and not merely from the blood of the 
animal that was slain as a sacrifice for sin. This is one 
of the origins that were unfolded to the initiated by 
the teachers of the secret wisdom in the mysteries. 
The earliest form of the purifying blood was female. It 
was first the blood of the virgin mother, the blood of 
Isis, the blood of the incarnation, the flowing blood, 
the element in which Horus manifested when he 
came by blood, the blood on which the rite of 
purification was founded as a natural mode of 
cleansing. This is the one sole origin in the whole 
realm of nature for the blood which cleanseth, and it was in this feminine phase that a doctrine of 
purification by blood was established for the use of 
later theology when the sacrificial victim had been 
made a male who was held to have shed the atoning, 
purifying, saving blood upon a tree. There was no 
other way by which a soul was ever saved by blood 
than this act of salvation effected by the virgin mother. 
There never was any other incarnation than this of 
Horus in the blood of Isis, and no other saviour by 
blood was possible in the whole domain of 
unperverted nature. Neither could the transaction be 
made historical, nor the saviour personal, not if every 
tree on earth were cut into the figure of across with 
the effigy of a bleeding human body hung on every 
bough. Purification by means of blood then originated 
in the blood of Isis, the virgin mother of the human 
Horus, who, as the red child, calf or Iamb, personated 
that purification by blood which became doctrinal in 
the eschatology. To substitute the blood of a Jew shed 
on a cross as a means of making the purification for 
sins and the mode of cleansing souls in the blood of 
the Iamb for the natural purification of the mother 
was the grossest form of profanity, inconceivably 
impious to those who knew the mystical nature of the 
doctrine and its origin in human phenomena 
continued as a typical purification by blood that was practised in the mysteries, either by baptism or 
sprinkling with blood, or drinking blood, or eating the 
bloody wafer of the Roman eucharist.The natural 
blood sacrifice was feminine. The typical blood 
sacrifice was that of the red calf, the Iamb, or the 
child. The Iamb on the cross was the Christian victim 
until the eighth century A.D., at which time the man 
was permanently substituted for the Iamb, and the 
blood sacrifice was thenceforth portrayed as human 
and historical. A doctrine of voluntary sacrifice was 
founded from the time when the human mother gave 
herself to be eaten with honour by her children in the 
most primitive form of the mortuary meal. She offered 
her flesh to be eaten and her blood to be drunk; she 
gave herself as a natural blood sacrifice on which the 
typical was founded when the female totem as a cow, 
a bear, or other animal was made a substitute for the 
human mother. Also, when the earth was looked upon 
as the mythical mother of food and drink who was a 
wet-nurse in the water, and who gave herself bodily 
to her children for food, the sacrifice was typically 
continued if! totem ism when the animal supplied the 
sacramental food. As before shown, the earliest form 
of voluntary sacrifice was female. The human mother 
as victim was repeated in the mythology as divine, the 
mother in elemental nature; she who gave her flesh and blood as life to her children was then continued as 
a type in the more mystical phase. Hence came 
salvation by the blood of Isis-that is, by the virgin 
blood in which Horus was incarnated and made flesh, 
as the saviour who thus came by blood. 
A Spaniard, who was paying expensively to regain 
the lost favour of the Holy Virgin, on being told by his 
priest that Mary had not yet forgiven him, is said to 
have shaken his fist in the face of his fetish and to 
have reminded her that she need not be so proud in 
her present position, as he had known her ever since 
she was only a bit of green plum tree. The ancient 
Egyptians knew the natural origins of their symbols 
and dogmas. Christians have mistaken the bit of green 
plum tree for an historical virgin. 
The earliest form of god the father who became a 
voluntary sacrifice in Egypt was Ptah in the character 
of Sekari, the silent sufferer, the coffined one, the 
deity that opened up the nether-world for the 
resurrection in the solar mythos. As solar god he went 
down into Amenta. There he died and rose again, and 
thus became the resurrection and the way into a 
future lire as founder of Egyptian eschatology. Atum 
the son of Ptah likewise became the voluntary sacrifice 
as the source of life, but in another way and more 
apparent form. The mother human and divine had given life with her blood, and now the father, who 
was blended with the mother in Atum, is portrayed as 
creator of mankind by the shedding of his own blood. 
In the cult of Ptah at Memphis and Atum at On 
there was a strenuous endeavour made to set creative 
source as male above the female. Hence it was said of 
the symbolic beetles that there was no female race 
among them Hor— Apollo, B. I., 10. In cutting the 
member, Atum showed that he was the creator by the 
blood shed in a voluntary sacrifice. Male source is 
recognized, but according to what had preceded as the 
mother element, blood still remained a typical essence 
of creative life. And this is apparently illustrated by 
the rite of circumcision. The custom pertains, world 
over, to the swearing— in of the youths when they join 
the ranks of the fathers or begetters and follow the 
example of Atum as the father Ra, who was 
previously Horus the son. Atum, like Ptah, was also 
the typical sacrifice in the earth of eternity, who gave 
his life as sun god and as the master of food that 
sprang up for the Manes in Amenta. Osiris follows. In 
him the human mother who first gave herself to be 
eaten, and the great mother Isis, who was the saviour 
by blood, were combined with god the father in a 
more complete and perfect sacrifice as mother and 
father of the race in one. Lastly, the son as Horus or as Iusa is made a vicarious sacrifice, not, however, as an 
atonement for sin, but as voluntary sufferer instead of 
his mother or his father. For in the Kamite scheme the 
mother never is omitted. Hence, when Horus comes 
in the character of the red god who orders the block 
of execution with the terrifying face of Har— Shefi. as 
the avenger of the afflictions suffered by his father  or 
by himself in his first advent, it is he  who lifteth up 
his father and who lifteth up his mother with his staff 
Rit., ch. Renouf. Egypt, however, had anticipated 
Rome in attaining the unbloody sacrifice that was 
represented by the wafer, or loaf, of Horus as the 
bread of heaven, which took the place of flesh meat in 
the eucharistic meal, whilst retaining the beer or wine, 
as substitute for blood, in representing the female 
element. Thus Horus was eaten as the bread of life, 
and his blood was drunk in the red ale, or wine, as the 
final form in Egypt of the sacrificial, voluntary, living 
victim that had been the human mother, the typical 
mother, the totemic animal, the cow of Hathor, the 
fish, the goose, the calf, the lamb, the victim in various 
forms, each one of which, down to the lentils and the 
corn, was figurative of the beneficent sacrifice that 
from the first was typical of a power in nature, call it 
mother or son, father, goddess or god, that provided 
food and drink, accompanied with an idea of sacrifice in the giving of life when blood was looked on as the 
life. 
How many sacraments hath Christ ordained in His 
Church? is asked in the Prayer-book, and the answer 
is, Two only as generally necessary to salvation-that is 
to say, baptism and the supper of the Lord.And both 
of these were Egyptian thousands of years earlier. The 
proof is preserved in that treasury of truth, the Ritual 
of the resurrection. In the first chapter of the Ritual 
Turin Papyrus it is said by the priest, I lustrate with 
water in Tat tu and anoint with oil, in Abydos. We 
might call the Egyptians very particular Baptists for in 
the first ten gates of Elysium -or entrances to the great 
dwelling of Osiris the deceased is purified at least ten 
times over in ten separate baptisms, and ten different 
waters in which the gods and goddesses had been 
washed to make the water holy Ritual, ch. 145. The 
inundation was the water of renewal to the life of 
Egypt, and this natural fact was the source and origin 
of a doctrine of baptismal regeneration. The salvation 
that came to Egypt in the Nile was continued in the 
Egyptian eschatology as salvation by water. ..I. give 
thee the liquid or humidity which ensures salvation, is 
said to the soul of the deceased Rit., I  . They did 
not think that souls were saved from perdition by a 
wash of water or a bath of blood, but bodily baptism was continued as a symbol of purification for the 
spirit. The deceased explains that he had been steeped 
in the waters of natron and nitre, or salt, and made 
pure-pure in heart, pure in his forepart, his posterior 
part, his middle, and pure all over, so that there is no 
part of him remaining soiled or stained. The pool of 
baptism is dual in Amenta. In one part it is the pool of 
natron, in the other the pool of salt.Both natron and 
silt were used in preparing the mummy of the 
deceased, and the same process is repeated in the 
purification of the soul to make it also permanent, 
which was a mode of salvation. The deceased says, 
May I be fortified or protected by seventy 
purifications Mariette, Mon. divers, pi. I, just as 
Christians at the present time speak of being fortified 
by the sacraments of the Church. I purify myself at 
the great stream the galaxy, where all my ills are 
made to cease; that which is wrong in me is pardoned, 
and the spots which were upon my body upon earth 
are washed away Rit., ch. 86. Lo, I come, that I 
may purify this soul of mine in the most high degree. 
Let me be purified in the lake of propitiation and of 
equipoise. Let me plunge into the divine pool beneath 
the two divine sycamores of heaven and earth  ch. Renouf . The pool of purification and healing that 
was figured in the northern heaven at the pole, and also reproduced in the paradise of Amenta, has been 
repeated in the Gospel according to John ch. as the 
Pool of Bethesda. In the Ritual ch. part one of 
two waters is called the pool or tank of righteousness. 
In this pool the glorified elect receive their final 
purification and are healed. They are thus made pure 
for the presence of Osiris. The healing process was 
timed to take place at certain hours of the night or 
day. The Turin text gives the fourth hour of the night 
and the eighth hour of the day. But there are other 
readings. The Manes, as usual in the gospels, are 
represented by the multitude of them that were sick, 
blind, halt, and withered, waiting to be healed. The 
elect or chosen ones are those who are first at the pool 
when the waters are troubled. Hence the story of the 
man who was non-elect. 
It was a postulate of the Christians, maintained by 
Augustine and others, that infants who died 
unbaptized were damned eternally. This doctrine also 
had its rootage in the mysteries of Amenta. The roots 
have hitherto been hidden in the earth of eternity 
which has been mistaken for our earth of time. We 
are now enabled to exhibit them above ground and 
hold both root and product up to the light like the 
bulb of a hyacinth suspended in a glass water-bottle, 
These can now be studied, roots and all. The flesh that is formed of the mother's blood was held to share in 
the impurity of the female nature. It was in this sense 
solely that woman was the author of evil. The Child- 
Horus born of flesh and blood was the prototype of 
the unbaptized child-that is, the child unpurified by 
baptism. Without baptismal regeneration in Tattu 
there was no blending of the elder Horus with the 
soul or spirit of Horus divinized. According to the 
Egyptian doctrine, the development would be arrested 
and the soul from the earthly body might remain a 
wretched shade that was doomed to extinction, or, in 
the Christian perversion, was damned eternally. It was 
in Amenta that the dead were raised to inherit the 
second life. The resurrection had no other meaning for 
the Egyptians. And in the resurrection the Osiris is 
thus greeted:  Hail, Osiris 1 thou art born twice! The 
gods say to thee: ' Come 1 come forth; come see what 
belongs to thee in thy house of eternity' ch. 170. It is 
then that he is changed and renewed in an instant. 
In blending the two halves of a soul that was dual in 
sex, dual also in matter and spirit, into one, according 
to the mystery of Tat tu, there was a return to the 
type beyond sex from which the two had bifurcated 
in the human creation. This one enduring soul was 
typical of the eternal soul which included motherhood 
and father-hood in one personality like that of the multi mammalian Osiris which the Child— Horus could 
only represent in some form of duality that imaged 
both sexes in one, as do the deities who are figured 
with one female bosom as a mode of en— onement. 
Female mummies have been exhumed that were 
made up wearing the beard of a male. This was 
another figure of the soul completed by uniting the 
two halves of sex in one figure, the type affected by 
the Queen Hatshepsu when she clothed herself in 
masculine attire and reigned as Mistress Aten. It was 
the same with the Pharaohs who wore the tail of the 
cow or lioness. They also included both halves of the 
perfect soul, as a likeness of the biune being divinized 
in heaven which they represented on the earth. The 
doctrine was brought on in the iconography of the 
gnostic artists when Jesus is figured as a woman with a 
beard, who is designated the Christ as Saint Sophia  
or Charis  Didron, fig. 50, and also when Jesus is 
depicted in the Book of Revelation as a being of both 
sexes, a youth with female paps; in the likeness of 
Osiris, whose male body is half covered with female 
mammae, and who is Osiris in the upper and Isis in the 
lower part of the same mummy. Not only was it 
necessary to be regenerated and reborn in the likeness 
of god the father; the Manes could only enter the 
kingdom of heaven as a being of both sexes or of neither. The two halves of the soul that was 
established for ever in Tattu were male and female; 
the soul of Shu was male, the soul of Tefnut female. 
When these were united in one to form a completed 
Manes and a perfect spirit the result was a typical 
creation from both sexes in which there was neither 
male nor female. This oneness, in the Horus who was 
divinized, is the oneness in Christ described by Paul 
As many of you as were baptized into Christ, did put 
on Christ. There can be no male nor female, for ye are 
all one in Christ Jesus. One of the fragments 
preserved by Clement Alexander and Clement of 
Rome from the lost gospel of the Egyptians, which is 
more than fully recoverable in the Ritual, will show 
the continuity of the doctrine as Egyptian in a gospel 
that was designated Egyptian. The Lord having been 
asked by Salome when his kingdom would come, 
replied, when you shall have trampled under foot the 
garment of shame; When two shall be one, when that 
which is without shall be like that which is within, 
and when the male with the female shall be neither 
male nor female. The garment of shame was 
feminine, being as it was of the flesh. On this the 
Ritual has a word to say. The impurity of matter 
which came to be ascribed to the mother of all flesh, 
or female nature, is symbolically shown in the chapters for arranging the funeral bed Rit., chs. 71. This is exemplified by means of the feminine 
garment— the apron— which is here considered to be a 
sign of all that was wrong in the deceased; the wrong 
that was derived from the mother, as elsewhere 
described in the Ritual, because it is the garb of 
impurity called the garment of shame in the 
Egyptian gospel, which was to be trampled under foot 
when the male and female were to be made one in 
spirit, or as spirit. In the ceremony of wrapping up 
the deceased in a pure garment, the impure one being 
now discarded is alluded to in ch. When the 
deceased was stretched upon the funeral bed the body 
was divested of the apron and clothed in the pure 
garment of the khus or spirits,  the pure garment 
allotted to him for ever Rit., ch. 171. But the 
feminine garment is still worn without shame by the 
masquerading male as the bishop's apron, which can 
be traced back as feminine to the loin-cloth and apron 
first worn by the sex for the most primitive and pitiful 
of human needs at the time of puberty. The bishop in 
his apron, like the priest in his petticoat and the 
clergyman in his surplice, is alikeness of the biune 
being who united both sexes in one; the modern 
Protestant equivalent for the Pharaoh with the cow's tail ; and Venus with a beard, the mutilated eunuch, or 
any other dual type 
of hermaphrodital deity. Men who masquerade in 
women's clothing are commonly prosecuted, but the 
bishop carries on his mummery without even being 
suspected. He walks about as ignorant of his 
vestmental origins as any of the passers by. Usually the 
custom of men dressing in women's clothing is limited 
to our Easter pastimes, but the bishops still carry it on 
all through the year. 
The Christians prattle about the divine sonship of 
humanity, manifested in the historical Jesus. But they 
have no divine daughtership, no origin for the soul as 
female and no female soul. The Jews did all they could 
to get rid of the female part of the divine nature, and 
the exigency of the Christian history has suppressed 
the feminine element altogether in the human type 
that represented both sexes in humanity as it was set 
forth by the Egyptians in the mysteries. Finally, it has 
been frequently asserted that only through the Gospel 
Jesus has a god of the poor man ever been revealed- a 
statement most profoundly false. A god of the poor 
and suffering was personified in Horus the elder. But 
there is a corollary to the character. He is likewise an 
avenger of the sufferings. Horus at Edfu is said to 
protect the needy against the powerful. Also, in the great Judgment Hall the Osiris deceased upon his trial 
says, I have not been a land-grabber. I have not 
exacted more than should be done for me as the first 
fruits of each day's work Rit. ch. . Various other 
statements tend to show that the unjust capitalists of 
those times had a mortal dread of facing Osiris the 
divinized judge, who was likewise god of the poor and 
needy. In an Egyptian hymn the one god, Atum the 
maker of men, is described as lying awake while all 
men lie asleep, to seek out the good of his creatures 
line 12, listening to the poor in their distress, gentle 
of heart when one cries to him. Deliverer of the timid 
man from the violent, lord of mercy most loving, 
judging the poor, the poor and the oppressed Hymn 
to Amen-Ra, Records, vol. ii., p. 129. Taht was the 
recorder in the Judgment Hall. At the weighing of 
hearts he portrayed the character of the deceased, and 
in one of the texts it is said that when he placed the 
heart in the scales against Maati, the goddess of justice, 
he leaned to the side of mercy, that the judgment 
might be favourably inclined, as though he exerted a 
little pressure on the human side of the balance. 
It has also been said that the historic Jesus came to 
glorify the lot of labour, which antiquity despised, 
whereas the Egyptian paradise was the reward of 
labour, and Horus the husbandman in the harvest- field of the Aarru is the worker, personified. No one 
attained the Egyptian heaven but the worker, who 
reaped solely in proportion as he had sown. The 
portion of land allotted to the Manes for cultivation in 
Amenta was enlarged only for those who had been 
good labourers on earth. The Shebti figures in the 
tombs are equipped for labour with the plough or hoe 
in their hands. As agriculturists they put their hands to 
the plough. There was no unearned increment for 
loafers in the earth of eternity. A flash of revelation 
lightens from the cloud of Egypt's past when we learn 
from the Ritual that a part of the work to be 
performed in the Aarru paradise or field of harvest in 
Amenta was to clear away the life-choking sand. 
These fighters and conquerors of the much, detested 
desert still retain that image of the earliest cultivators, 
the makers of the soil which they enclosed and first 
protected from the drifting, sterilizing sand. The 
Manes, addressing the Shebti figures, says to them, O 
typical ones! If I should be judged worthy of doing the 
work that has to be done in Amenta, bear witness for 
me that I am worthy to fertilize the fields, to flush the 
streams, and transport the sand from west to east 
Rit., ch. 6. He became one of the glorified elect in 
being judged worthy of the work. This will show that 
in making the primeval paradise they were still the 
cultivators who had conquered on earth by their long 
wrestle with the powers of dearth in the desert when 
they made their passage through the wilderness of 
sand and held on to the skirts of Mother Nile, who led 
them to a land which she herself had made for them 
to turn into an oasis and a paradise of plenty with her 
waters for assistance in the war against Apap, or Sut, 
the Sebau, and the burning Sahara. It may also explain 
why the Pharaohs from the time of the eleventh 
dynasty were officially entitled Masters of the Oasis, 
the oasis, that is, which had been created in Egypt by 
human labour to be localized in Amenta as the 
promised land that was to be attained at last among 
the never— setting stars in the oasis of eternity. 
The prototypes of hell and purgatory and the 
earthly paradise are all to be found in the Egyptian 
Amenta. There is, says the Christian rhymer, Dr. 
Watts 
There is a dreadful hell 
And everlasting pains, 
Where sinners must with devils dwell 
In darkness, fire, and chains. 
The darkness, fire, and chains, as well as the 
brimstone, which was the stone of Sut, and other 
paraphernalia of the Christian hell, are also Egyptian. But the chains were employed for the fettering of Sut, 
the Apap, and the Sebau, the evil adversaries of Osiris, 
the good or perfect being, not for the torturing of 
souls that once were human. The Egyptian hell was 
not a place of everlasting pain, but of extinction For 
those who were wicked irretrievably. It must be 
admitted, to the honour and glory of the Christian 
deity, that a god of eternal torment is an ideal 
distinctly Christian, to which the Egyptians never did 
attain. Theirs was the all-parental god, Father and 
Mother in one whose heart was thought to bleed in 
every wound of suffering humanity, and Whose son 
was represented in the character of the Comforter. 
Also the hell— fire of Christian theology, the hell- 
fire that is unquenchable Mark ix. 44, is a survival 
of the representation made in the Egyptian mysteries. 
The Osiris in Amenta passes through this hell of fire in 
which those who are condemned suffer their 
annihilation. He says, I enter in and I come forth from 
the tank or lake of flame on the day when the 
adversaries are annihilated at Sekhem Rit., ch. I. 
When the glorified deceased had made his voyage in 
heaven over the leg of Ptah and reached the mount 
of glory, he exclaims, I have come from the lake of 
flame, from the lake of fire and from the field of 
flame. He has made his escape from destruction, and attained the eternal city at the pole of heaven. This 
lake of fire that is never quenched was derived from 
the solar force in the mythology on which the 
eschatology was based. Hence the locality was in the 
east, at the place of sunrise. The wicked were 
consumed by fire at the place where the righteous 
entered the solar bark to sail the heavenly waters 
called the Kabhu, or the cool, and voyage west- ward 
toward the heaven of the setting stars. The lake of 
flame was in the east, the lake of outer darkness in the 
west. For when the bark of Ra or the boat of souls had 
reached the west at sunset there was a great gulf fixed 
between the mount called Manu in the west and the 
starry vault of night, the gulf of Putrata Rit., ch. 44, 
where the dead fell into darkness unless supported by 
Apuat the star-god, by Horus in the moon, and by Ra 
the solar deity, the visible representatives of 
superhuman powers in the astronomical mythology. 
At the last judgment in the mysteries those who 
had failed to make the word of Osiris truth against his 
enemies, as the formula runs, were doomed to die a 
second death. The first was in the body on the earth, 
the second in the spirit. The enemies of justice, law, 
truth, and right were doomed to be destroyed for ever 
in the lake of fire or tank of flame. They were 
annihilated once for all Rit., ch. I. The doctrine crops up in the Pauline Epistles and in Revelation, where the 
end of all is with a destruction in the lake of fire. In 
the Epistle to the Hebrews the destruction of lost 
souls is compared with that of vegetable matter 
being consumed by fire. The doctrine, like so many 
others, was Egyptian, upon which the haze of 
ignorance settled down, to cause confusion ever since. 
Take away the Karaite devil, and the Christian world 
mould suffer sad bereavement. The devil was of 
Egyptian origin, both as that old serpent the Apap 
reptile, the devil with a long tail, and as Sut, w ho 
was Satan in ananthropomorphic guise. Sut, the power 
of drought and darkness in physical phenomena, 
becomes the dark-hearted evil one, and is then 
described as causing storms and tempests, going round 
the horizon of heaven II like one whose heart is 
veiled Rit., ch. Renouf, as the adversary of Osiris 
the Good Being. The darkness, fire, and chains are all 
Egyptian. Darkness was mythically represented by the 
Apap dragon, also as the domain of Sut in the later 
theology. Darkness in the nether world is identical 
with the tunnels of Sut in Amenta. The chains are 
likewise Egyptian, but not for human wear. Apap and 
the Sebau, Sut and the Sami are bound in chains. It is 
said to the pre-anthropomorphic devil, Chains are 
cast upon thee by the scorpion goddess Rit., ch. 39. Sut is also imprisoned with a chain upon his neck ch. 08. As already explained, the Sebau and the Sami 
represent the physical forces in external nature that 
made for evil and were for ever opposed to the Good 
Being and to the peace of the world. These were 
always rising in impotent revolt as the hosts of 
darkness and spawn of Apap, headed by the evil- 
hearted Sut. They had to be kept under; hence the 
necessity for prisons, bonds, and chains. The mythical 
imagery has been continued in the Christian 
eschatology, and the sinners put in the place of the 
Sebau, whereas in the Egyptian teaching the sinners, 
once human, who were irretrievably bad, were put an 
end to once for all, at the time of the second death, in 
the region of annihilation Rit., ch. 18. Coming to an 
end for ever was, to the Egyptian mind, a prospect 
worse than everlasting pains, so profound was their 
appreciation of life, so powerful their will to persist. 
They represented evil as negation. 
Apap is evil and a type of negation in the natural 
phenomena that were opposed to good. In the 
eschatology Sut represents negation as nonexistence. 
Evil culminated in annihilation and non— being for the 
Manes, and the negation of being, of life, of good, was 
the ultimate form of evil. The Egyptian purgatory, 
called the Meskat, is a place of purgation where the primitive mode of purifying may be compared with 
that of Fulling. It is effected by beating. Hence the 
Meskat is the place of scourging. The Manes pleads 
that he may not fall under the knives of the 
executioners in the place of extermination, as he has 
passed through the place of purification in the middle 
of the Meskat. In chapter the Manes prays that he 
may not be stopped at the Meskat, or in purgatory, 
but may pass on to the divine dwelling-place prepared 
for him by Turn above the earth, where he can join 
his two hands together, and eat the bread and drink 
the beer upon the table of Osiris. The same plea, Let 
me not be stopped at the Meskat, or kept in 
purgatory , is also uttered by the speaker in chapter The enemies of the Good Being were likewise 
pilloried. Hence the Manes says, Deliver me from the 
gods of the pillory, who fasten the guilty to their 
posts ch. 180. 
A late attempt has been made on behalf of the 
Roman Catholic religion to lure people into Hades by 
showing that it is only a mitigated mourning 
department; that the devil himself is not so black as 
hitherto painted, and that there is really a tolerable 
amount of happiness to be obtained in hell. But this is 
only looking a little closer into the traditions of 
Amenta which survived in Rome.They belong to the same original source as that from which the Church 
derived its doctrines of purgatory, the second death, 
and other dogmas not to be found in the Gospels. 
There is no everlasting bonfire of eternal torture in the 
Egyptian hells, of which there are ten, known as the 
ten circles of the condemned, in the inferno or divine 
nether region. The utterly worthless suffer a second 
death upon the highways of the damned, and are 
spoken of as those who are no more. The Roman 
Church continued the dogma of a second death, and 
then somewhat nullified it by adding punishment of 
an infinite duration, as being more coercive to all who 
did or did not zealously believe. There was no other 
identifiable source for the Christian eschatology than 
the Egyptian wisdom. The Roman Church was 
founded on the Ritual. Possibly a version of the 
original may one day be found preserved in the secret 
archives of Rome, the text of which would explain 
numerous pictures in the Catacombs and other works 
of the gnostic artists who were the actual authors of 
the Egypto-Christian iconography, not the few poor 
fishermen. The Roman Church will yet find that she 
is at root Egyptian, and will then seek to slough off the 
spurious history which by that time will be looked 
upon as solely incremental. The Egyptians were the greatest realists that ever 
lived. For thousands and thousands of years it was 
their obvious endeavour at full stretch to reach the 
ultimate reality of eternal truth. Their interrogation of 
nature was like the questioning- of children, very 
much in earnest: But is it really true? The real was 
the quest of their unceasing inquiry. To be real was 
the end and aim; that was living in truth. The only one 
god was the real god. Horus in spirit was the real 
Horus. Reality was royalty. In the time of the fifth 
dynasty a certain Tep-en-ankh claims to be the real 
judge and scribe, the real nearest friend of the king. 
For them eternal life was the ultimate reality. The 
Egyptian was pre— eminently a manly religion, and 
therefore calculated to develop manhood. In the hall 
of the last judgment the deceased expects justice and 
equity. His god is a just and righteous judge. He does 
not pray for mercy or writhe in the dust to seek a 
sentimental forgiveness for sins, or sue for clemency. 
His was not a creed of that nature. He knows it is the 
life, the character, the conduct that will count in the 
scales of Maati for the life hereafter. The human 
Horus put in no plea for sinners on account of his 
sufferings. Divine Horus throws no make— weight into 
the scale. Deceased is judged by what he has done and 
by what he has not done in the life on earth. He must be sound at heart. He must have spoken and acted the 
truth. The word of god must have been made truth by 
him to be of any avail at the bar of judgment. That 
was the object of all the teaching in all the mysteries 
and writings which were held to be divine. The 
standard of law without and within was set up under 
the name of Maati or Maat, a name denoting the fixed, 
undeviating law and eternal rule of right. Hence the 
same word signifies law, truth, justice, rightfulness, 
and the later righteousness. The foremost and the final 
article of the Egyptian creed was to fulfil Maati. This is 
the beginning, the middle, and the end of the moral 
law.The deity enthroned by them for worship was the 
god of Maati, tile name, which has the fourfold 
meaning of law, justice, truth, and right, which are one 
as well as synonymous. Judgment with justice was 
their aim, their alpha and omega, in administering the 
law which their religious sense had divinized for 
human use; and its supreme type, erected at the pole, 
in the equinox, or the Hall of Judgment, was the pair 
of scales at perfect equipoise, for with them the 
equilibrium of the universe was dependent on eternal 
equity. 
It may look like taking a flying leap in the dark to 
pass from the Egyptian Book of the Dead to Bunyan's 
Pilgrim's Progress, but whencesoever Bunyan derived the tradition, the Pilgrim's Progress contains all outline 
of the matter in the Egyptian Ritual. Christian 
personates the Manes on his journey through the 
nether earth, with the roll in his hand containing the 
word of life. The escape from the City of Destruction 
may be seen in the escape of the deceased from the 
destruction threatened in Amenta, when he exclaims. 
I come from the lake of flame, from the lake of fire 
and from the field of flame ch. 98. The wicket-gate 
corresponds to the secret doorway of the mysteries; 
the Slough of Despond to the marshes in the mythos; 
the Hill Difficulty to the Mount of Ascent up which 
the Osiris climbs with his staff in his hand. The 
Manes forgets his name; Christian forgets his roll, the 
roll that was his guide book for the journey and his 
passport to the celestial city. The prototypal valley of 
the shadow of death is the Aar-en-tet in Amenta. 
This is the valley of darkness and death Rit., ch. . The Ritual says, Let not the Osiris advance into 
the valley of darkness where the twice-dead were 
buried for ever by the great annihilator Seb. The 
monster Apap is the original Apollyon. The 
equipment of Christian in his armour for his conflict 
with Apollyon in the Valley of Humiliation is one 
with the equipment of the Osiris, who enters the 
valley glorious and well equipped for the battle with his adversary the dragon. The fight of Christian and 
Apollyon is identical with the contest between Ra 
and Apap. All the time of his struggle Apollyon fought 
with yells and hideous roarings; Apap with the voice 
of strong bellowings  Rit., ch. 39. Christian passes by 
the mouth of hell; the Osiris passes by the ten hells, 
with all of them, as it were, making mouths at him for 
their prey. There are two lions at the gate of the 
Palace Beautiful, and in the Ritual the two lions 
crouch at the beautiful gate of exit from Amenta Vig. 
to ch. 18. The waters of the river of life, the green 
meadows, the delectable mountains, the land of 
Beulah, the paradise of peace, the celestial city on the 
summit, all belong to the mythology of Hetep or the 
Mount of Glory-a bare outline, the mere skeleton of 
which has been clothed at different times in various 
forms, including this of the Pilgrim's Progress. Possibly 
Bunyan the tinker derived the tradition from those 
travelling tinkers the gipsies. However this may be, the 
Egyptian Ritual is the verifiable source of Bunyan' s 
Pilgrim's Progress. 
Many illustrations might also be given to show that 
the mysteries of Amenta, which were finally summed 
up as Osirian, have been carried to the other side of 
the world. In the mythology of the aborigines of New 
Holland, Grogoragally, the divine son, is the active agent of his father, who immovably presides over all 
nature like Osiris, the mummy god of the motionless 
heart. The son watches the actions of men, and 
quickens the dead immediately upon their earthly 
interment. He acts as mediator for the souls to the 
great god, to whom the good and bad actions of all are 
known. His office is chiefly to bring at the close of 
every day the spirits of the dead from all parts of the 
world to the judgment-seat of his father, where alone 
there is eternal light. There he acts as intercessor for 
those who have only spent some portion of their lives 
in wickedness. Bayma, listening to the mediation of his 
son, allows Grogoragally to admit some such into 
Ballima, or heaven Manning, Notes on the Aborigines 
of New Holland, Sydney, copy from the author. 
Grogoragally is one with the hawk-headed Horus, the 
paraclete or advocate who pleads for the Manes before 
the judgment-seat of his father. Again, the aborigines 
of the McDonnell Ranges have a tradition that the sky 
was at one time inhabited by three persons. One of 
these was a woman, one was a child who always 
remained a child and never developed beyond 
childhood; the third was a man of gigantic stature 
called Ulthaana-that is a spirit. He had an enormous 
foot shaped like that of an emu. When a native dies he is said to ascend to the home of Ulthaana the spirit 
Gillen, Notes, Horn Expedition, vol. iv., p. 183. 
This is a far-off folk tale that may be traced back 
home to the Egyptian myth. In this Child— Horus never 
developed beyond childhood, and so remained the 
eternal child. This was Horus of the incarnation who 
made his transformation into the Horus that rose again 
as the adult, the great man, Horus in spirit, the 
prototype of Ulthaana. The bird type is repeated. 
Horus has the head of the hawk, as a figure of the man 
in spirit;. Ulthaana, as a spirit, has the foot of an 
enormous emu. 
The Arunta also have a kind of Amenta or world of 
spirits under ground. About fourteen miles to the 
south of Alice Springs there is a cave in a range of hills 
which rises to the north. This cave, like all others in 
the range, is supposed to be occupied by the 
Iruntarinia or spirit individuals, each one of whom is 
in reality the double of one of the ancestors of the 
tribe who lived in the Alcherinfla. The individual 
spirits are supposed to live within the cave in 
perpetual sunshine and among streams of running 
water, as in the Egyptian meadows of Aarru. Here, as 
in Amenta, the reconstitution of the deceased takes 
place. Within the cave the Iruntarinia remove all the 
internal organs, and provide the man with a completely new set, after which operation has been 
successfully performed he presently comes to life 
again, but in a condition of insanity. This, however, is 
of short duration, and the coming round is equivalent 
to the recovery of memory by the Manes in the Ritual, 
when he remembers his name and who he is in the 
great house of the other world Spencer and Gillen, p. 25. There are bird-souls also in this nether earth, 
which are favoured with unlimited supplies of down 
or undattha, with which they are fond of decorating 
their bodies as spirits.The mysteries of Amenta are 
more or less extant in the totemic ceremonies of the 
Central Australians at a more rudimentary stage of 
development, which means, according to the present 
reading of the data, that the same primitive wisdom 
was carried out from the same central birthplace in 
Africa to the islands of the Southern Sea, and there 
fossilized during long ages of isolation, which had been 
carried down the Nile to take living root and grow and 
flourish as the mythology and eschatology of ancient 
Egypt. 
In the mysteries of Amenta the deceased is 
reconstructed from seven constituent parts or souls in 
seven stages of developmentCorresponding to these in 
the Arunta mysteries, seven status-terms are applied 
to the initiate. He is called Ambaquerka up to the time of his being tossed in the air. He is Ulpmerka 
until taken to the circumcision ground. He is the 
Wurtja during the time betwixt being painted for it 
and the actual performance of the ceremony. He is 
Arakurta betwixt the operations of circumcision and 
sub-incision. He is Ertwa-kurka after circumcision 
until he passes through the ordeal by fire. 
Following this he is called Illpongwurra, and after 
passing through the engwurra he is designated Urliara. 
Spencer and Gillen, N. T v p. 638. In the mysteries of 
Amenta the mouth of the resuscitated spirit is opened 
and the silence of death is broken when the lips are 
touched by the sacred implement in the hands of Ptah. 
It is said in the ceremony of opening the mouth, 
Let my mouth be opened by Ptah with the 
instrument of ba— metal with which he openeth the 
mouths of the gods ch. . The Arunta also perform 
the ceremony of opening the mouth by touching it 
with a sacred object when the initiates are released 
from the ban of silence Spencer and Gillen, pp. 85. A mystery of the resurrection is acted by the 
Arunta in the quabarra ingwurninga inkinja, or 
corroborree of the arisen bones, which bones imaged 
the dead body, whilst the performers represented the 
Ulthaana or spirits of the dead p.473. The bones were sacredly preserved by those who were as yet 
unable to make the mummy as a type of permanence. 
Messrs. Spencer and Gillen tell us that every 
Australian native has to pass through certain 
ceremonies before he is admitted to the secrets of the 
tribe. The first takes place at about the age of ten or 
twelve years, whilst the final and most impressive one 
is not passed through until probably the native has 
reached the age of at least twenty— five, or It may be 
thirty years  N. T., pp. 213. These two initiations 
correspond to those in the mysteries of the double 
Horus. At twelve years of age the Child-Horus makes 
his transformation into the adult in his baptism or 
other kindred mysteries. Horus as the man of thirty 
years is initiated in the final mystery of the 
resurrection. So was it with the gnostic Jesus. The long 
lock of Horus, the sign of childhood, was worn by him 
until he attained the age of twelve years, when he was 
changed into a man. With the southern Arunta tribe 
the hair of the boy is for the first time tied up at the 
commencement of the opening ceremony of the series 
by which he is made a man. HIS long hair is the 
equivalent of the Horus lock. The first act of initiation 
in the Arunta mysteries is that of throwing the boy up 
into the air— a ceremony that still survives with us in 
the tossing of the new— comer in a blanket! This was a primitive mode of dedication to the ancestral spirit of 
the totem or the tribe, whose voice is heard in the 
sound of the churinga or bull— roarer whirling round. It 
is said by the natives that the voice of the great spirit 
was heard when the resounding bull-roarer spoke. 
The great spirit was supposed to descend and enter 
the body of the boy and to make him a man, just as in 
the mystery of Tat tu the soul of Horus the adult 
descends upon and unites with the soul of Horus the 
child, or the soul of Ra the holy spirit descends upon 
Osiris to quicken and transform and re-erect the 
mummy. Where risen Horus becomes bird— headed as 
the adult in spirit the Arunta youth is given the 
appearance of flight to signify the change resulting 
from the descent of the spirit as the cause of 
transformation. When one becomes a soul in the 
mysteries of the Ritual by assuming the form or image 
of Ra, the initiate exclaims Let me wheel round in 
whirls, let me revolve like the turning one  ch. 83. 
The turning one is the sun god Chepera Kheper, 
whose name is identical with that of an Australian 
tribe. Kheper is the soul of self— originating force that 
was imaged under one type by the bennu, a bird that 
ascends the air and flies to a great height whilst 
circling round and round in spiral wheels Rit., ch. . Whether this be the churinga, the bribbun, 
turndun, or whirler in a glorified form or not, the 
doctrine of soul-making at puberty is the same in the 
Australian as in the Egyptian mysteries. 
In the Egyptian mythology Horus is the blind man, 
or rather he is the child born blind, called Horus in the 
dark. He is also described as the blind Horus in the 
city of the blind. In his blindness he is typical of the 
emasculated sun in winter and of the human soul in 
death. At the place of his resurrection or rebirth there 
stands a tree up which he climbs to enter spirit life. 
And we are told that near to Charlotte Waters is the 
tree that Jose to mark the spot where a blind man 
died. This tree is called the apera okilchya — that is, 
the blind man's tree, and the place where it stands was 
the camp of the blind, the city of the blind, the world 
of the dead, in which the tree of life or dawn was 
rooted N.T., p. 552. Should the tree be cut down the 
men where it grows will become blind. They would 
be like Horus in the dark, this being the tree of light 
or the dawn of eternal day. In one of their ceremonies 
the Arunta perform the mystery of the oruncha which 
existed in the Alcheringa. These were evil spirits or 
devil-devil men, malevolent and murderous to 
human beings, especially to the women after dark 
N.T., p. 329,390-1. In this performance they are portrayed as prowling round, crawling, peering about, 
and seeking whom they may devour. They run 
backwards and forwards on all fours as beasts of prey, 
growling and pretending to frighten each other. The 
oruncha are the creatures of the dark, with horns like 
the mediaeval devil, and they correspond to the Sebau 
fiends or evil spirits of the Egyptian mythos who are 
the enemies of the good Osiris in Amenta. These 
devil-devil men made war upon the lizard men, the 
men of the lizard totem, but there were two brothers 
who rushed upon them as avengers, and slew the 
whole of the oruncha. The evil powers were the 
creatures of chaos, the spawn of darkness, the devils of 
drought, with whom there was no law or order. The 
two brothers = brotherhoods belonged to the lizard 
totem, together with their wives. This was the earliest 
totem of the Arunta. 
In the last of the initiation ceremonies the Arunta 
raise a special mound, called the parra, on the engwura 
ground, where the final rites are performed and full 
initiation is attained. Here the nurtunga was raised, 
and the parra mound was, so to say, erected at the 
pole. Messrs. Spencer and Gillen tell us they were 
unable to learn the meaning of the word parra. But, as 
the comparison is not simply verbal, we note that para 
is an ancient Egyptian name for Annu, the place of the column, the mount of the pole, and of the balance in 
the Maat. The Chepara tribe of Southern Queensland 
also throw up the circular mound for their greater 
mystery of the kuringal, in which may be identified 
the baptism and rebirth by fire Howitt, Australian 
Ceremonies of the Initiation. Amongst the initiatory 
rites of the Arunta mysteries is the purification by fire. 
When the initiate has passed through this trial he 
becomes a perfectly developed member of the tribe, 
and is called an urliara, or one who has been proved by 
fire [N.T., p. .The natives say that the ceremony 
has the effect of strengthening the character of all who 
pass through it. This is one of the most obvious 
survivals. Afire ceremony is described in the Ritual as 
an exceeding great mystery and a type of the hidden 
things in the under world. It is an application of the 
fires by means of which power and might are 
conferred upon the spirits khu among the stars 
which never set. These fires, it is said in the rubric  
ch. , A, shall make the spirit as vigorous as divine 
Osiris. It is a great ordeal, and so secret is the mystery 
that it is only to be seen by the males. Thou shalt not 
perform this ceremony before any human being, 
except thine own self or thy father or thy son. 
Amongst other things the fire is good for destroying 
evil influences and for giving power to Horus in his 
war with darkness. It is of interest to note the part 
played by the females in the ordeals by fire. In one of 
these the fire is prepared by the women, and when the 
youth squats upon the fire they place their hands upon 
his shoulder and gently press him down upon the 
smoking fuel N.T., p. 259. Now in the Egyptian 
mysteries of Amenta the punishers or purifiers in the 
hells or furnaces are women or goddesses, and it looks 
as if this character had survived in the mysteries of the 
Arunta. When the elders shout through the darkness 
to the women across the river, What are you doing?  
the reply is,  We are making a fire.  What are you 
going to do with the fire? is asked, and the women 
shout, We are going to burn the men. This occurs 
during a pause by night in the ceremonies of initiation, 
which terminate with the ordeal by fire. Spencer and 
Gillen. The concluding ordeals by fire and the final 
washing in the Australian ceremonies can be 
paralleled in the Ritual. Lo, I come, says the speaker, 
that I may purify this soul of mine in the most high 
degree ch. 97; and again, I come from the lake of 
flame, from the lake of fire and from the field of 
flame, and I live. He is now a spirit sufficiently 
advanced to join the ancient never- setting ones and 
become a fellow— citizen with them in the eternal city 
ch. 98. The initiate in the Australian mysteries having passed through the initiatory ceremonies, joins 
the elders as a fully-developed member of his tribe. 
The most sacred ceremonial object of the Arunta is 
called the kaltaua.This is erected at the close of the 
engwura mysteries. A young gum-tree, feet in 
height, is cut down, stripped of its branches and its 
bark, to be erected in the middle of the sacred ground. 
The decoration at the top was just that of a human 
head. It was covered allover with human blood, 
unless red ochre had been substituted. The exact 
significance of the kauaua is not known to the natives, 
but, as the writers affirm, it has some relation to a 
human being, and is regarded as common to the 
members of all the totems p. 630. Its mystery is made 
known at the conclusion of the engwura, a series of 
ceremonies, the last of the initiatory rites through 
which the native must pass to become a fully- 
developed member who is admitted to all the secrets 
of the tribe, of which this is apparently final and 
supreme. All things considered, we think the sacred 
kauaua is a form of the Egyptian ka-statue, which is a 
type of eternal duration as an image of the highest 
soul. To make the kauaua, so to say, the pole is 
humanized. It is painted with human blood, and 
ornamented like the human head. It has but one form, 
and is common to all the totems. So is it with the Egyptian ka, the eidolon of the enduring soul. The 
name of the kauaua answers to a long-drawn-out 
form of the word ka, as ka-a-a.The mysteries of the 
Arunta, which sometimes take four months together 
for a complete performance, constitute their religious 
ceremonies, their mean of instruction, their books, 
their arts of statuary, painting, and Sign-language, their 
modes of preserving the past, whether lived on earth, 
or, as they have it, in the Alcheringa, during the times 
of the mythical ancestors beyond which tradition does 
not penetrate. The main difference betwixt the 
Australian and the Egyptian mysteries is that the one 
are performed on this earth in the totemic stage of 
sociology, the other in the earth of Amenta in the 
phase of eschatology. Also the Egyptians continued 
growing all the time that the Australians were 
standing still or retrograding. Lastly, we may be sure 
that such mysteries as these did not spring from a 
hundred different origins and come together by 
fortuitous concourse from the ends of the earth, to be 
finally formulated as the Egyptian mysteries of 
Amenta. 
Ye Testimony of Abl-Al Hazred
This is the testimony of all that I have seen, and all that I have learned, in those years that I have possessed the Three Seals of MASSHU. I have seen One Thousand and-One moons, and surely this is enough for the span of a mans life, though it is said the Prophets lived much longer. I am weak, and ill, and bear great tired- ness and exhaustion, and a sigh hangs in my breast like a dark lantern, I am old. 
The wolves carry their name in their midnight speeches, and that quiet, subtle Voice is summoning me from afar. And a voice much closer will shout into my ear with unholy impatience. The weight of my soul will decide its final resting place. Before the time, I must put down here all that I can concerning the horrors that stalk Without, and which lie in wait at the door of every man, for this is the ancient arcana that has been handed down of old, but which has been forgotten by all but a few men, the worshippers of the Ancient Ones may their names be blotted out! 
And if I do not finish this task, take what is here and discover the rest, for time is short and mankind does not know or understand the evil that awaits it, from every side, from every open Gate, from every broken barrier, from every mindless acolyte at the alters of madness. 
For this is the Book of the Dead, the Book of the Black Earth, that I have writ down at the peril of my life, exactly as I received it, on the planes of IGIGI, the cruel celestial spirits from beyond the Wanderers of the Wastes. 
Let all who read this book be warned thereby that the habitation of men are seen and surveyed by that Ancient Race of gods and demons from a time before time, and that they seek revenge for that forgotten battle that took place somewhere in the Cosmos and rent the Worlds in the days before the creation of Man, when the Elder Gods walked the Spaces, the race of MARDUK, as he is known to the Chaldeans, and of ENKI our master, the Lord of Magicians. 
Know, then, that I have trod all the Zones of the Gods, and also the places of Azonei, and have descended into the foul places of Death and Eternal Thirst, which may be reached through the Gate of GANZIR, which was built in UR in the days before Babylonian was. 
Know, too, that I have spoken with all manner of spirit and daemon, whose names are no longer known in the societies of Man, or were never known. And the seals of these are writ herein ; yet others I must take with me when I leave you. ANU have mercy on my soul! 
I have seen the Unknown Lands, that no map has ever charted. I have lived in the deserts and the wastelands, and spoken with demons and the souls of slaughtered men, and of women who have died in childbirth, victims of the she-fiend LAMMASHTA. 
I have traveled beneath the Seas, in search of the Palace of Our Master, and found the stone monuments of vanquished civilizations, and de-ciphered the writings of some of these; while still others remain mysteries to any man who lives. And these civilizations were destroyed because of the knowledge contained in this book. 
I have traveled among the stars, and trembled before the gods. I have at last found the formula by which I passed the gate of ARZIR, and passed into the forbidden realms of the foul IGIGI. 
I have raised demons, and the dead. 
I have summoned the ghosts of my ancestors to real and visible appearance on the tops of temples built to reach the stars, and built to touch the nethermost cavities of HADES. I have wrestled with the Black Magician, AZAG-THOTH, in vain, and fled to the Earth by calling upon INANNA and her brother MARDUK, Lord of the double-headed AXE. 
I have raised armies against the Lands of the East, by summoning the hordes of fiends I have made subject unto me, and so doing found NGAA, the god of the heathens, who breathes flame and roars like a thousand thunders. 
I have found fear. 
I have found the Gate that leads to the Outside, by which the Ancient Ones, who ever seek the entrance to our world, keep eternal watch. I have smelled the vapors of that Ancient One, Queen of the Outside, whose name is writ in the MAGAN text, the testament of some dead civilization whose priests, seeking power, swing open the dread, evil Gate for an hour past the time and were consumed. 
I came to possess this knowledge through circumstances quite peculiar, while still the unlettered son of a shepherd in what is called Mesopotamia by the Greeks. 
When I was only a youth, traveling alone in the mountains to the East, called MASSHU by the people who live there, I came upon a grey rock carved with three strange symbols. It stood as high as a man, and as wide around as a bull. It was firmly in the ground, and I could not move it. Thinking no more of the carvings, save that they might be the work of a king to mark some Ancient victory over an enemy, I built a fire at its foot to protect me from the from the wolves that wander in that regions and went to sleep, for it was night and I was far from my village, being Bet Durrabia.
Being about three hours from dawn, in the nineteenth of Shabatu, I was awakened by the howl of a dog, or perhaps a wolf, uncommonly loud and close at hand. The fire had died to its embers, and these red, glowing coals cast a faint, dancing shadow across the stone monument with the three carvings. I began to make haste to build another fire when, at once, the grey rock began to rise slowly into the air, as if it were a dove. I could not move or speak for the fear that seized upon my spine and wrapped cold fingers around my skull. The Dik of Azug-bel-ya was no stranger seemed to melt into my hands! 
Presently, I heard a voice, softly, some distance away and a more practical fear, that the possibility of robbers, took hold of me and I rolled behind weeds, trembling. Another voice joined the first, and soon several men in black robes of thieves came together over the place where I was, surrounding the floating rock, of which they did not exhibit in the least fright. 
I could see clearly now that the three carvings on the stone monument were glowing, a flame red color, as through the rock were on fire. The figures were murmuring together in prayer or invocation, of which only a few words could be heard, and these in some unknown tongue; though, ANU have mercy on my soul!, these rituals are not unknown to me any longer. 
The figures, whose faces I could not see or recognize, began to make wild passes in the air with knives that glinted cold and sharp in the mountain night. 
From beneath the floating rock, out of the very ground where it had sat, came rising the tail of a serpent. This serpent was surely larger than any I had ever seen. The thinnest section thereof was fully that of the arms of two men, and as it rose from the earth it was followed by another, although the end of the first was not seen as it seemed to reach down into the very Pit itself. These were followed by still more, and the ground began to tremble under the pressure of so many of these enormous arms. The chanting of the priests, for I knew them now to be some the servants of some hidden Power, became much louder and nearly hysterical.
IA! IA! ZI AZAG!
IA!IA! ZI AZKAK!
IA! IA! KUTULU ZI KUR!
IA!
The ground where I was hiding became wet with some substance, being slightly downhill from the scene I was witnessing. I touched the wetness and found it to be blood. In horror I screamed and gave my presence away to the priests. They turned toward me, and I saw with loathing that they had cut their chests with the daggers they had used to raise the stone, for some mystical purpose I could not then divine; although I now know that blood is the very food of these spirits, which is why that field after the battles of war glows with an unnatural light, the manifestation of the spirits feeding thereon. 
May ANU protect us all! 
My scream had the effect of casting their ritual into chaos and disorder. I raced through the mountain path by which I had come, and the priests came running after me, although some seemed to stay behind, perhaps to finish the Rites. However, as I ran wildly down the slopes in the cold night, my heart gave rise in my chest and my head growing hot, the sound of splitting rocks and thunder came from behind me and shook the very ground I ran on. In fright and haste I fell to the earth. 
Rising, I turned to face whatever attacker had come nearest me, though I was unarmed. To my surprise, what I saw was no priest of ancient horror, no necromancer of that forbidden Art, but black robes fallen upon the grass and weeds, with no seeming presence of life or bodies beneath them. 
I walked cautiously to the first and, picking up a long twig, lifted the robe from the tangle of weeds and thorns. All that remained of the priest was a pool of slime, like green oil, and the smell of a body lain long in the sun to rot. Such a stench nearly overpowered me, but I was resolute to find the others, to see if the same fortune had also befallen them. 
Walking back up the slope that I had so fearfully run down only moments ago, I came across yet another of the black priests, in identical condition to the first. I kept walking, passing more of the robes as I went, not venturing to overturn them any longer. Then, I finally came upon the grey stone monument that had risen unnaturally into the air at the command of the priests. It was now upon the ground once more, but the carvings still glowed with supernatural light. The serpents, or what I had then thought of as serpents, had disappeared. But in the dead embers of the fire, now cold and black, was a shining metal plate.
I picked it up and saw that it was also carved, as the stone, but very intricately, after a fashion I could not understand. It did not bear the same markings as the stone, but I had the feeling I could almost read the characters, but could not, as though I once knew the tongue but had since long forgotten. Mt head began to ache as though a devil was pounding my skull, when a shaft of moonlight hit the metal amulet, for I know now what it was, and a voice entered my head and told me the secrets of the scene I had witnessed in one word: KUTULU.
In that moment, as though whispered fiercely into my ear, I understood. 
These were the signs carved upon the grey stone, that was the gate to the Outside: 
I wish to apologize for the primitive descriptions of the symbols but its about the best that can be done with this file writer
The amulet that I held in my hand, and hold to this very day, around my neck as I write these words, is this: after seeing the so-called picture of the symbols you can probably understand why I did not attempt to show you the amulet 
Of the three symbols carved, the first is the Sign of our Race from beyond the Stars, and is called ARRA in the tongue of the Scribe who taught it to me, an emissary of the Elder Ones. In the tongue of the eldest city of Babylon, it was UR. It is the Sigil of the Covenant of the Elder Gods, and when they see it, they who gave it to us, they will not forget us. They have sworn! 
Spirit of the Skies, Remember! 
The second sign is the Elder Sign, and is the Key whereby the Powers of the Elder Gods may be summoned, when used with the proper words and shapes. It has a Name, and is called AGGA. 
The third sign is the Sigil of the Watcher. It is called BANDAR. The Watcher is a Race sent by the Elder Ones. It keeps vigil while one sleeps provided the appropriate rituals and sacrifice has been preformed; else, if called, it will turn upon you. 
These seals, to be effective, must be graven on stone and set in the ground. Or, set upon the alter of offerings. Or, carried to the Rock of Invocations. Or, engraved upon the metal of ones God or Goddes and hung about the neck, but hidden from the view of the profane. Of these three, the ARRA and the AGGA may be used separately, that is to say singly, and alone. The BANDAR however, must never be used alone, but with one or both of the others, for the Watcher must needs to be reminded of the Covenant he has sworn with the Elder Gods and our Race, else it will turn upon thee and slay thee and ravage thy town until succor is to be had from the Elder Gods by the tears of thy people and the wailing of thy women. 
KAKAMMU!
The fire amulet that I retrieved from the ashes of the fire, and which caught the light of the moon, is a potent seal against whatever may come in the Gate from the Outside for, seeing it, they will retreat from thee SAVE ONLY IF IT CATCH THE LIGHT OF THE MOON UPON ITS SURFACE for, in the dark days of the moon, or in clouds, there can be little protection against the fiends from the Ancient Land should they break the barrier, or be let in by their servants upon the face of the Earth. In such a case, no recourse is to be had until the light of the moon shines upon the Earth, for the moon is the Eldest among the Zonei, and is the starry symbol of our pact. NANNA, Father of the Gods, Remember! 
Wherefore, the amulet must be engraved upon pure silver in the full light of the moon, that the moon shine upon it at its working, and the essence of the moon be drawn down and captured therein. And the proper incantations must be performed, and the prescribed rituals as given forth in this Book. And the amulet must NEVER be exposed to the light of the Sun, for SHAMMASH called UDU, in his jealousy, will rob the seal of its power. In such case, it must be bathed in waters of camphor, and the incantations and ritual performed once again. But verily, it were better to engrave another. 
These secrets I give to thee at the pain of my life, never to be revealed to the profane, or the banished, or the Worshippers of the Ancient Serpent, but to keep within their own heart, always silent upon these things. 
Peace be to thee!
Henceforth, from that fateful night in the mountains of MASSHU, I wandered about the countryside in search of the key to the secret knowledge that had been given me. And it was a painful and lonely journey, during which time I took no wife, called no house or village my home, and dwelt in various countries, often in caves or in the deserts, learning several tongues as a traveler, to bargain with the trades people and learn of the news and customs. But my bargaining was with the Powers that reside in each of these countries. And soon, I came to understand many things of which before I had no knowledge, except perhaps in dreams. The friends of my youth deserted me, and I them. When I was seven years gone from my family, I learned that they had all died of their own hand, for reasons no one was able to tell me; their flocks had later been slain as the victims of some strange epidemic. 
I wandered as a beggar, being fed from town to town as the local people saw fit, often being stoned instead of threatened with imprisonment. On occasion, I was able to convince some learned man that I was a sincere scholar, and was thereby permitted to read the Ancient Records in which the details of necromancy, sorcery, magick and alchemy are given. I learned of the spells that cause men illness, the plague, blindness, insanity and even death. I learned the various classes of demons and evil gods that exist, and of the old legends concerning the Ancient Ones.
I was thus able to arm myself against the dread Maskim, who lie in wait about the boundaries of the world, ready to trap the unwary and devour the sacrifices set out at night and in deserted places; against the she-devil LAMMASHTA, who is called Sword that Splits the Skull, the sight of whom causes horror and dismay, and some say death of a most uncommon nature. 
In time I learned of the names and properties of all the demons, devils, fiends and monsters listed herein, in this Book of the Black Earth. I learned of the powers in the astral Gods, and how to summon their aid in times of need. I learned, too, of the frightful beings who dwell beyond the astral spirits, who guard the entrance to the Temple of the Lost, of the Ancient Days the Ancient of the Ancient Ones, whose Name I cannot write here. 
In my solitary ceremonies in the hills, worshipping with fire and sword, with water and dagger, and with the assistance of strange grass that grows wild in certain parts of the MASSHU, and with which I had unwittingly built my fire before the rock, that grass that gives the mind great power to travel tremendous distances into the heavens, as also into the hells, I received the formulae for the amulets and talismans which follow, which provide the Priest with safe passage among the spheres wherein he may travel in search of the Wisdom. 
But now, after One Thousand-and-One moons of the journey, the Maskim nip at my heels, the Rabishu pull at my hair, Lammashta opens her dread jaws, AZAG-THOTH gloats blindly at his throne, KUTULU raises his head and stares up through the Veils of sunkun Varloorni, up through the Abyss, and fixes his stare upon me; wherefore I must with haste write this Book lest my end come sooner than I had prepared. For indeed, it appears as though I have failed in some regard as to the order of the rites, or to the formulae, or to the sacrifices, for now it appears as if the entire host of ERESSKIGAL lies waiting, dreaming, drooling for my departure.
I pray the gods that I am saved which he is not, for gods cannot save ones soul, only GOD and not perish as did the Priest, ABDUL BEN-MARTU, in Jerusalem the gods remember and have mercy upon him!. My fate is no longer writ in the stars, for I have broken the Chaldean Covenant by seeking power over the Zonei. I have set foot on the moon, and the moon no longer has power over me. The lines of my life have been obliterated by my wanderings in the Waste, over the letters writ in the heavens by the gods. And even now I can hear the wolves howling in the mountains as they did that fateful night, and they are calling my name, and the names of the Others. I fear for my flesh, but I fear for my spirit more. 
Remember, always, in every empty moment, to call upon the gods not to forget thee, for they are forgetful and very far away. Light thy fires high in the hills, and on the tops of temples and pyramids, that they may see and remember. 
Remember, always, to copy each of the formulae as I have put it down and not to change it by one line or dot, not so much as hair's breadth, lest it be rendered valueless, or worse: a broken line provides means of entrance for those Outside, for a broken star is the Gate of GANZIR, the Gate of Death, the Gate of the Shadows and the Shells. Recite the incantations as they are written here, in the manner thus prescribed. Prepare the rituals without erring, and in the proper places and times render the sacrifices. 
May the gods ever be merciful unto thee! 
May thou escape the jaws of the MASKIM, and vanquish the power to the Ancient Ones! 
AND THE GODS GRANT THEE DEATH BEFORE THE ANCIENT ONES RULE THE EARTH ONCE MORE! 
KAKAMMU! SELAH! 
Of Ye Old Ones and their Spawn
The Old Ones were, the Old Ones are and the Old Ones shall be. From the dark stars They came ere man was born, unseen and loathsome They descended to primal earth. Beneath the oceans They brooded while ages past, till seas gave up the land, whereupon They swarmed forth in Their multitudes and darkness ruled the Earth. 
At the frozen Poles They raised mighty cities, and upon high places the temples of Those whome nature owns not and the Gods have cursed. 
And the spawn of the Old Ones covered the Earth, and Their children endureth throughout the ages. Ye shantaks of Leng are the work of Their hands, the Ghasts who dwelleth in Zin's primordial vaults know Them as their Lords. 
They have fathered the Na-Hag and the Gaunts that ride the Night; Great Cthulhu is Their brother, the shaggoths Their slaves. The Dholes do homage unto Them in the nighted vale of Pnoth and Gugs sing Their praises beneath the peaks of ancient Throk. 
They have walked amidst the stars and They have walked the Earth. The City of Irem in the great desert has known Them; Leng in the Cold Waste has seen Their passing, the timeless citadel upon the cloud-vieled heights of unknown Kadath beareth Their mark. 
Wantonly the Old Ones trod the ways of darkness and Their blasphemies were great upon the Earth; all creation bowed beneath Their might and knew Them for Their wickedness. 
And the Elder Lords opened Their eyes and beheld the abominations of Those that ravaged the Earth. In Their wrath They set their hand against the Old Ones, staying Them in the midst of Their iniquity and casting Them forth from the Earth to the Void beyond the planes where chaos reigns and form abideth not. And the Elder Lords set Their seal upon the Gateway and the power of the Old Ones prevailest not against its might. 
Loathsome Cthulhu rose then from the deeps and raged with exceeding great fury against the Earth Guardians. And They bound his venomous claws with potent spells and sealed him up within the City of R'lyeh wherein beneath the waves he shall sleep death's dream until the end of the Aeon. 
Beyond the Gate dwell now the Old Ones; not in the spaces known unto men but in the angles betwixt them. Outside Earth's plane They linger and ever awaite the time of Their return; for the Earth has known Them and shall know Them in time yet to come. 
And the Old Ones hold foul and formless Azathoth for Their Master abd Abide with Him in the black cavern at the centre of all infinity, where he gnaws ravenously in ultimate chaos amid the mad beating of hidden drums, the tuneless piping of hideous flutes and the ceaseless bellowing of blind idiot gods that shamble and gesture aimlessly for ever. 
The soul of Azathoth dwelleth in Yog-sothoth and He shall beckon unto the Old Ones when the stars mark the time of Their coming; for Yog-sothoth is the Gate through which Those of the Void will re-enter. Yog-sothoth knowest the mazes of of time, for all time is one unto Him. He knowest where the Old Ones came forth in time along long past and where They shall come forth again when the cycle returneth. 
After day cometh night; man's day shall pass, and They shall rule where They once ruled. As foulness you shall know them and Their accursedness shall stain the Earth. 
Of Ye Times and Ye Seasons to be Observed
Whenever thou would'st call forth Those from Outside, thou must mark well the seasons and times in which the spheres do intersect and the influences flow from the Void 
Thou must observe the cycle of the Moon, the movements of the planets, the Sun's course through the Zodiac and the rising of the constellations. 
Ye Ultimate Rites shall be performed only in the seasons proper to them, these be: at Candlemas on the second day of the second month, at Beltane on the Eve of May, at Lammas on the first day of the eighth month, at Roodmas on the fourteenth day of the ninth month, and at Hallowmas on November Eve. 
Call out to dread Azathoth when the Sun is in the sign of the Ram, the Lion, or the Archer; the Moon decreasing and Mars and Saturn conjoin. 
Mighty Yog-sothoth shall rise to ye incantations when Sol has entered the fiery house of Leo and the hour of Lammas be upon ye. 
Evoke ye terrible Hastur on Candlemas Night, when Sol is in Aquarius and Mercury in trine. 
Supplicate Great Cthulhu only at Hallowmas Eve when the Sun abides within the House of the Scorpion and Orion riseth. When All Hallows falls within the cycle of the new Moon the power shall be the strongest. 
Conjure Shub-Niggurath when the Beltane fires glow upon the hills and the Sun is in the Second House, repeating the Rites of Roodmas when ye Black One appeareth. 
To Raise up Ye Stones
To form ye Gate through which They from ye Outer Void might manifest thou must set up ye stones in ye elevenfold configuration. 
First thou shalt raise up ye four cardinal stones and these shall mark ye direction of ye four winds as they howleth through their seasons. 
{Alter Design} 
To ye North set ye the stone of Great Coldness that shall form ye Gate of ye winter-wind engraving thereupon the sigil of the Earth-Bull thus: {Taurus sigil} 
In ye South at a space of five paces from ye stone of ye North, thou shalt raise a stone of fierce-heat, through which ye summer winds bloweth and make upon ye stone ye mark of ye Lion-serpent thus:{Leo Sigil} 
Ye stone of whirling-air shall be set in ye East where ye first equinox riseth and shall be graven with ye sign of he that beareth ye waters, thus:{Aquarius Sigil} 
Ye Gate of Rushing Torrents thou cause to beat the west most inner point at a space of five paces from ye stone of ye East where ye sun dieth in ye evening and ye cycle of night returns. Blazon ye stone with ye character of ye Scorpion whose tail reacheth unto the stars:{Scorpio Sigil} 
Set thou the seven stones of Those that wander ye heavens, without ye inner four and through their diverse influences shall ye focus of power be established. 
In ye North beyond the stone of Great Coldness set ye first ye stone of Saturn at a space of three paces. This being done proceed thou widdershins placing at like distances apart ye stones of Jupiter, Mercury, Mars, Venus, Sul and Luna marking each with their rightful sign. 
{Seal of Yog-Sothoth} 
At ye center of the so completed configuration set ye the Alter of ye Great Old Ones and seal it with ye symbol of Yog-Sothoth and ye mighty Names of Azathoth, Cthulhu, Hastur, Shub-Niggurath and Nyarlathotep. 
And ye stones shall be ye Gates through which thou shalt call Them forth from Outside man's time and space. 
Entreat ye of ye stones by night and when the Moon decreasetth in her light, turning thy face to ye direction of Their coming, speaking ye words and making ye gestures that bringeth forth ye Old Ones and causeth Them to walk once more ye Earth.
{Seal of Yog-Sothoth}
{Alter Design}
To Compound Ye Incense of Zkauba
In the day and hour of Mercury with the Moon in her increase, thou shalt take equal parts of Myrrh, Civet, Storax, Wormwood, Assafoetida, Galbanum and Musk, mix well together and reduce all to the finest powder. 
Place the so assembled elements in a vessel of green glass and seal with a brazen stopper afore inscribed with the characters of Mars and Saturn. 
Elevate the vessel to the Four Winds and cry aloud the supreme words of power thus:
To the North: ZIJMUORSOBET, NOIJM, ZAVAXO!
To the East: QUEHAIJ, ABAWO, NOQUETONAIJI!
To the South: OASAIJ, WURAM, THEFOTOSON!
To the West: ZIJORONAIFWETHO, MUGELTHOR, MUGELTHOR-YZXE!
Cover the vessel with a cloth of black velvet and set aside. 
For each of seven nights thou shalt bathe the vessel in Moonlight for the space of one hour - keeping it concealed beneath the cloth from cock-crow till sunset. 
All this being accomplished the incense shall be ready for use and possessed of such vertue that he that useth it with knowledge shall have power to call forth and command the Infernal Legions. 
Nota: When employed in ye Ultimate Rites the incense may be rendered more efficacious by the addition of one part powdered mummy-Egypticus. 
Employ the perfume of Zkauba in all ceremonies of ye ancient Lore casting ye essences upon live coals of Yew or Oak. And when ye spirits drawn near, the vaporous smoke shall enchant and fascinate them, binding their powers to thy will. 
{Editor's Note: In the published edition a series of planetary glyphs and sigils are shown in reference to the above formula. These have been omitted as they are not illustrated in the original manuscript but were provided from other unrelated texts by the publishers.} 
Of Diverse Signs
These most potent signs shall be so formed with thy left hand when thou employeth them in ye Rites {The four Signs} 
Ye first sign is that of Voor and in nature it be ye true symbol of ye Old Ones. Make ye thus whenever thou wouldst supplicate Those that ever waite beyond the Threshold. 
Ye second sign is that of Kish and it breaketh down all barriers and openeth ye portals of ye Ultimate Planes. 
In ye third place goeth ye Great Sign of Koth which sealeth ye Gates and guardeth ye pathways.
{The four Signs}
Ye forth sign is that of ye Elder Gods. It protecteth those who would evoke ye powers by night, and banish ye forces of menace and antagonism. 
Nota: Ye Elder Sign hath yet another form and when so enscribed upon ye grey stone of Mnar it serveth to hold back ye power of Ye Great Old Ones for all time.
{The Elder Sign, Engraved}
{The Sign of Koth, engraved}
To Make Ye Powder of Ibn Ghazi
THE MYSTIC POWDER OF MATERIALIZATION: 
Take ye dust of ye tomb - wherein ye body has lain for two hundred years or more past -, three parts. Take of powdered Amaranth, two parts; of ground Ivy leaf, one part, and of fine salt, one part. 
Compound all together in an open mortar in the day and hour of Saturn. 
Make over the thus assembled ingredients the Voorish sign, and then seal up the powder within a leaden casket whereupon is graven the sigil of Koth. 
YE USING OF YE POWDER: 
Whenever thou wisheth to observe the airial manifestations of the spirits blow a pinch of ye powder in the irection of their coming, either from the palm of thy hand or the blade of the Magic Bolyne. 
Mark ye well that ye maketh ye Elder Sign at their appearence, lest the tendrils of darkness enter thy soul. 
Ye Unction of Khephnes Ye Egyptian
Whosoever anointeth his head with the ointment of Khephnes shall in sleep be grabted true visions of time yet to come 
When ye Moon increaseth in her light place in an earthen crucible a goodly quantity of oil of ye Lotus, sprinkle with one once powdered mandragora and stir well with ye forked twig of ye wild thorn bush. Having so done utter ye incantation of Yebsu taken fron diverse lines in ye papyrus thus:
I am the Lord of Spirits, 
Oridimbai, Sonadir, Episghes, 
I am Ubaste, Ptho born of Binui Sphe, Phas; 
In the name of Auebothiabathabaithobeuee 
Give power to my spell O Nasira Oapkis Shfe, 
Give power Chons-in-Thebes-Nefer-hotep, Ophois, 
Give power! O Bakaxikhekh!
Add to ye potion pinch of red earth, nine drops natron, for drops balsam of Olibanum and one drop blood from thy right hand. Combine the whole with a like measure of fat of the gosling and place ye vessel upon ye fire. When all is rendered well and ye dark vapours begin to rise, make ye the Elder Sign and remove from ye flames. 
When the unguent has cooled place it within an urn of ye finest alabaster, which thou shalt keep in some secret place known only to thyself until thou shalt have need of it. 
To Fashion the Scimitar of Barzai
In the day and hour of Mars and when the Moon increaseth, make thou the scimitar of bronze with a hilt of fine ebony. 
Upon one side of the the blade thou shalt enscribe these characters:
{Editor's Note: These graphics are not shown in the Manuscript}
And upon the other side these:
{Editor's Note: These graphics are not shown in the Manuscript}
On the day and hour of Saturn the moon decreasing, light thou a fire of Laurel and yew boughs and offering the blade to the flames pronounce the five-fold conjuration thus: 
HCORIAXOJU, ZODCARNES, I powerfully call upon ye and stir ye up O ye mighty spirits that dwelleth in the Great Abyss. 
In the dread and potent name of AZATHOTH come ye forth and give power unto this blade fashioned in accordance to ancient Lore. 
By XENTHONO-ROHMATRU, I command you O AZIABELIS, by YSEHYROROSETH, I call the O ANTIQUELIS, and in the Vast and Terrible Name of DAMAMIACH that Crom-yha uttered and the mountains shook I mightily compel ye forth O BARBUELIS, attend me! aid me! give power unto my spell that this weapon that bearest the runes of fire recieveth such vertue that it shall strike fear into the hearts of all spirits that would disobey my commands, and that it shall assist me to form all manner of Circles, figures and mystic sigils necessary in the operations of Magickal Art. 
In the Name of Great and Mighty YOG-SOTHOTH and in the invincible sign of Voor give sign 
Give power! 
Give power! 
Give power! 
When the flames turn blue it shall be a sure sign that the spirits obey your demands whereupon thou shalt quench the blade in an afore prepared mixture of brine and cock-gall. 
Burn the incense of Zkauba as an offering to the spirits thou hast called forth, then dismiss them to their abodes with these words: 
In the Names of AZATHOTH and YOG-SOTHOTH, Their servant NYARLATHOTEP and by the power of this sign make ye the Elder Sign, I discharge thee; go forth from this place in peace and return ye not until I calleth thee. Seal ye portals with the sign of Koth. 
Wrap the scimitar in a cloth of black silk and setit aside until thou wouldst make use of it; but mark ye well that no other shall lay his hand upon the scimitar lest its vertue be forever lost. 
Ye Alphabet of Nug-Soth
{Editor's Note: The following graphic alphabet is deciphered from the manuscript, according to the publishers, by use of a Magic Square Cipher inherent in the manuscript itself and is therefore included in this e-text version.}
{Alphabet of Nug-Soth}
Ye Alphabet of Nug-Soth 
Note: In ye writing of ye mystic runes of Nug-Soth ye latin C serveth for ye K. 
Ye characters of Nug hold ye key to ye planes, employ ye them in ye talismanic art and in all ye sacred inscriptions 
Ye Dream-Lands Of Leng in Ye Cold Waste
Who seeketh Northwards beyond the twilight land of Inquanok shall find amidst the frozen waste the dark and mighty plateau of thrice-forbidden Leng. 
Know ye time-shunned Leng by the ever-burning evil-fires and ye foul screeching of the scaly Shantak birds which ride the upper air; by the howling of ye Na-hag who brood in nighted caverns and haunt men's dreams with strange madness, and by the grey stone temple beneath the Night Gaunts lair, wherein is he who wears the Yellow Mask and dwelleth all alone. 
But beware O Man, beware, of Those who tread in Darkness the ramparts of Kadath, for he that beholds Their mitred-heads shall know the claws of doom. 
Of Kadath Ye Unknown 
What man knoweth Kadath? 
For who shall know of that 
which ever abides in strange-time, 
twix yesterday, today and the morrow. 
Unknown amidst ye Cold Waste lieth the mountain of Kadath where upon the hidden summit an Onyx Castle stands. dark clouds shroud the mighty peak that gleams 'neath ancient stars where silent brood the titan towers and rear forbidden walls. 
Curse-runes guard the nighted gate carved by forgotten hands, and woe to he that dare pass within those dreadful doors. 
Earth's Gods revel where Others once walked in mystic timeless halls, which some have glimpst in sleeps dim vault through strange and sightless eyes. 
Ye Formula of Dho-Hna
Whosoever performeth this Rite with true understanding shall pass beyond ye Gates of Creation and enter ye Ultimate Abyss wherein dwelleth ye vapourous Lord S'ngac who eternally pondereth ye Mystery of Chaos. 
Trace ye Angle-Web with ye Scimitar of Barzai and offer the mystic suffumigations with the incense of Zkauba. [INLINE] 
Enter ye Web by the Gate of the North and reciting the incantation of Na thus:
ZAZAS, NASATANADA, ZAZAS ZAZAS
Proceed to ye South-most Pinnacle by the Path of Alpha whereupon make ye, ye Sign of Kish, pronouncing the triple-Word of power thrice, thus so:
OHODOS-SCIES-ZAMONI!
Proceed thence to ye Angle of the North-East chanting the third verse of ye Fifth Psalm of Nyarla- thotep seglecting not to make the quintuple genuflection on passing through ye curve locus-thus: 
The All-One dwelleth in Darkness, At the centre of All dwelleth He that is the Darkness; And tfiat Darkness shall be eternal when all shall bow before the Onyx Throne. 
Pause at the Third Angle and make ye once more the Sign of Kish speaking the words that clear the portal and stay the course of time: ABYssus-D|AcoNrsus, ZEXOWE-AZATHOTH! NRRGO, IAA! NYAR-LATHOTEP! 
Follow the Third Path to the Pinnacle of the West and there perform the obeisances in silence bow low thrice and give the gesture of Voor. Turn and tread the Path of Transfiguration leading to ye Ultimate Angle. Open up the Abyss Gate by the ninefold affirmation thus:
ZENOXESE, PIOTH, OXAS ZAEGOS, MAVOC NIGORSUS, BAYAR! HEECHO!
YOG-SOTHOTH! YOG-SOTHOTH! YOG-SOTHOTH!
Make ye the Sigil of Transformation and step thou forth into ye Gulf.
Ye Voice of Hastur
Hear ye the Voice of dread Hastur, hear the mournful sigh of the vortex, the mad rushing of the Ultimate Wind that Swirls darkly amongst the silent stars. 
Hear ye Him that howls serpent-fanged amid the bowels of nether earth; He whose ceaseless roaring ever fills the timeless skies of hidden Leng. 
His might teareth the forest and crusheth the city, but none shall know the hand that smiteth and the soul that destroys, for faceless and foul walketh the Accursed One, His form to men unknown. 
Hear then His Voice in the dark hours, answer His call with thine own; bow ye and pray at His passing, but speak not His name aloud. 
Concerning Nyarlathotep
I hear the Crawling Chaos that calls beyond the stars 
And They created Nyarlathotep for Their messenger, and They clothed Him with Chaos that His form might be ever hidden amidst the stars. 
Who shall know the mystery of Nyarlathotep? for He is the mask and will of Those that were when time was not. He is the priest of the Ether, the Dweller in Air and hath many faces that none shall recall. 
The waves freeze before Him; Gods dread His call. In men's dreams He whispers, yet who knoweth His form? 
Ye Adjuration of Great Cthulhu
Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh Wgah'nagl fhtan. 
A supplication to great Cthulhu for those who would have power over his minions. 
In the day and hour of the moon with sun in scorpio prepare thou a waxen tablet and enscribe thereon the seals of Cthulhu and Dagon; suffumigate with the incense of Zkauba and set aside. 
On Hallowmas eve thou must travel to some lonely place where high ground overlooks the ocean. Take up the tablet in thy right hand and make of the sign of Kish with thy left. Recite the incantation thrice and when the final word of the third utterance dieth in the air cast thou the tablet into the waves saying: 'In His House at R'lyeh Dead Cthulhu waits dreaming, yet He shall rise and His kingdom shall cover the Earth.' 
And He shall come unto you in sleep and show His sign with which ye shall unlock the secrets of the deep. Ye Incantation 
O Thou that lieth dead but ever dreameth, Hear, Thy servant calleth Thee. Hear me O mighty Cthulhu! ' Hear me Lord of Dreams ! In Thy tower at R'lyeh They have sealed ye, but Dagon shall break Thy accursed bonds, and Thy Kingdom shall rise once more. The Deep Ones knoweth Thy secret Name, The Hydra knoweth Thy lair; Give forth Thy sign that I may know Thy will upon the Earth. When death dies, Thy time shall be, and Thou shalt sleep no more; Grant me the power to still the waves, that I may hear Thy Call. 
At ye third repeating of ye incantation cast forth the Tablet into ye waves saying: 
In His House at R'lyeh Dead Cthulhu waits dreaming, yet He shall rise and His kingdom shall cover the Earth.

To Summon Shub-Niggurath Ye Black
Where the stones have been set up thou shalt call out to Shub-Niggurath, and unto he that knoweth the signs and uttereth the words all earthly pleasures shall be granted. 
When the sun entereth the Sign of the Ram and the time of night is upon ye turn thy face to the North wind and read the verse aloud: 
Iah ! SHUB-NIGGURATH ! 
Great Black Goat of the. Woods, I Call Thee forth ! Kneel Answer the cry of thy servant who knoweth the words of power! make the Voorish sign Rise up I say from thy slumbers and come forth with a thousand more! make the sign of Kish I make the signs, I speak the words that openeth the door! Come forth I say, I turn the Key, Now ! walk the Earth once more ! 
Cast the perfumes upon the coals, trace the sigil of Blaesu and pronounce the words of power:
ZARIATNATMIX, JANNA, ETITNAMUS, HAYRAS, FABELLERON, FUBENTRONTY, BRAZO, TABRASOL, NISA, VARF-SHUB-NIGGURATH ! GABOTS MEMBROT !
And then the Black one shall come forth unto thee and the thousand Horned Ones who howl shall rise up from the Earth. And thou shalt hold before them the talisman of Yhe upon which they shall bow to thy power and answer thy demands.
When thou would banish those that you have called forth intone the words: IMAS, WEGHAYMNKO, QUAHERS, XEWEFARAM 
Which closeth the Gate, and seal with the sign of Koth. 
To Call Forth Yog-Sothoth
For Yog-Sothoth is the Gate. 
He knoweth where the Old Ones 
came forth in times past and where 
They came forth again when 
the cycle returneth
When thou would call forth Yog-Sothoth thou must waite until the Sun is in the Fifth House with Saturn in trine. Then enter within the stones and draw about thee the Circle of evocation tracing the figurines with the mystic scimitar of Barzai. 
Circumambulate thrice widdershins and turning thy face to the South intone the conjuration that openeth the Gate: Ye Conjuration
O Thou that dwelleth in the darkness of the Outer Void, come forth unto the Earth once more I entreat thee.
O Thou who abideth beyond the Spheres of Time, hear my supplication. 
Make the sign of Caput Draconis
O Thou who art the Gate and the Way come forth come forth Thy servant calleth Thee. 
Make the Sign of Kish
BENATIR! CARARKAU! DEDOS! YOG-SOTHOTH! come forth! come forth! I speak the words, I Break Thy bonds, the seal is cast aside, pass through the Gate and enter the World I maketh Thy mighty Sign! 
Make the Sign of the Voor
Trace the pentagram of Fire and say the incantation that causeth the Great One to manifest before the Gate:
Ye Incantation 
Zyweso, wecato, keoso, Xunewe-rurom Xeverator. Menhatoy, Zywethorosto zuy, Zururogos Yog-Sothoth! Orary Ysgewot, homor athanatos nywe zumquros, Ysechyroroseth Xoneozebethoos Azathoth! Xono, Zuwezet, Quyhet kesos ysgeboth Nyarlathotep!; zuy rumoy quano duzy Xeuerator, YSHETO, THYYM, quaowe xeuerator phoe nagoo, Hastur! Hagathowos yachyros Gaba Sub-Niggurath! meweth, xosoy Vzewoth! 
Make the sign of Cauda Draconis 
TALUBSI! ADULA! ULU! BAACHUR! 
Come forth Yog-Sothoth! come forth!
* * *
And then he will come unto thee and bring His Globes and He will give true answer to all you desire to know. And He shall reveal unto you the secret of His seal by which you may gain favour in the sight of the Old Ones when They once more walk the Earth.
* * *
And when His hour be past the curse of the Elder Lords shall be upon Him and draw Him forth beyond the Gate where He shall abide until He be summoned.
{Editor's Note: Included on this page are a number of sigils and a magic circle. These illustrations are not in the Manuscript but were referenced from other texts, including, but not limited to; Key of Solomon see Additional Ms. 36,British Museum Library and Three Books of Occult Philosophy- Cornelius Agrippa.}
To Conjure of Ye Globes 
Know ye that the Globes of Yog-Sothoth be thirteen in number, and they be the powers of the Parasite-hoard which are His servitors and doeth His bidding in ye world. 
Call them forth whenever thou shall have need of anything and they shall grant their powers unto ye when ye shall call them with the incantations and make their sign. 
His Globes have diverse names and appeareth in many forms.
The first is GOMORY, who appeareth like a camel with a crown of gold upon his head. He commandeth twenty-six legions of infernal spirits and giveth the knowledge of all magical jewels and talismans. 
The second splrit is ZAGAN, who appeareth like a great bull, or a King terrible in aspect. Thirty-three legions bow before him and he teacheth the mysteries of the sea. 
The Third is called SYTRY, who taketh the form of a great Prince. He hath sixty legions and telleth the secrets of time yet to come. 
ELIGOR is the fourth spirit; he appeareth like a red man with a crown of iron upon his head. He commandeth likewise sixty legions and giveth the knowledge of victory in war, and telleth of strife to come. 
The fifth spirit is called DURSON and hath with him twenty-two familiar demons and appeareth like a raven. He can reveal all occult secrets and tell of past times. 
The sixth is VUAL his form is of a dark cloud and he teacheth all manner of ancient tongues. 
The seventh is SCOR, who appeareth like a white snake, he bringeth money at your command. 
ALGOR is the eighth spirit, he appeareth in the likeness of a fly. He can tell of all secret things and granteth the favours of great Princes and Kings. 
The ninth is SEFON. He appeareth like a man with a green face and hath the power to show where treasure is hidden. 
Tenth is PARTAS, He hath the form of a great vulture, and can tell ye the vertues of herbs, stones, make ye invisible and restore sight which is lost. 
The eleventh spirit is GAMOR, and when he appeareth like a man can marvellously enform ye of how to win favours of great persons and can drive away any spirit that guardeth over treasure. 
Twelfth is UMBRA, He appeareth like a giant; he can convey money from place to place if thou bid him and bestow the love of any woman that thou desirest. 
The thirteenth spirit is ANABOTH who taketh the form of a yellow toad. He hath the power to make thee marvellous cunning in nigromancy, he can drive away any devil that would hinder ye and tell of strange and hidden things.
When thou wouldst call up ye Globes thou must first make upon the earth this sign:
And evoke of them thus:
EZPHARES, OLYARAM, IRION-ESYTION,
ERYONA, OREA, ORASYM, MOZIM! 
By these words and in the name of YOG-SOTHOTH who is thy master, I do most powerfulIy summon and call ye up
O . . . . N . . . . 
That thou mayest aid me in my hour of need. 
Come forth I command ye by the sign of Power! 
Make the sign of Voor 
And then the spirit shall appear unto thee and grant thy requests. 
But if he remaineth invisible to thine eye, blow the dust of Ibn
Ghazi and he will immediately take his proper form. 
When thou wouldst banish what ye have called up eraze thou their sign
with the scimitar of Barzai and utter the words: 
CALDULECH ! DALMALEY ! CADAT ! 
and seal with the sign of Koth.
Nota: If on their appearance the spirits obstinately refuse to speak cleave the air thrice with the scimitar and say: ADRICANOROM DUMASO! And their tongue shall be loosened and they will be compelled to give true answer. 
Ritual for summoning Yog-Sothoth and opening the Gate
Banishing:
could be replaced with other banishings. Uses Salt, water and incense. 
Zazii, Zamaii, Puidmon the Powerful, Sedon the Strong, El, Yod, He, Vau, He, Iah, Agla, protect me and help me when I summon the Gate! light incense and candles 
No evil may approach from the North! No evil may approach from the East! No evil may approach from the South! No evil may approach from the West! No evil may approach from Zenith! No evil may approach from Nadir! bow towards the directions 
The Flaming Circle locks everything in! Draba, draba, kalta, kalta, entemoss! The Flaming Circle locks everything out! Draba, draba, kalta, kalta, entemoss! Accar, Zour and Maroud! Lock the circle and let no evil pass through! 
Draba, draba, kalta, kalta, entemoss! participants walk round the circle. Salt, water and incense is sprinkled
The Summoning:
Per Adonai Elohim, Adonai Jehova Adonai Sabaoth, Metraton Ou Agla Methon, Verbum Pythonicum, Mysterium Salamandrae Cenventus Sylvorum, Antra Gnomorum Demonia Coeli God, Almonsin Gibor Jehoshua Evam Zariathnatmik, Veni, Veni, Veni! 
Put your hands above your head, with the thumbs and index fingers together so they create a equilateral triangle. Turn the right hand so its halve of the triangle points down, creating a paralellogram. Turn the left hand, creating a downwards pointing triangle. Move it down to your forehead, turning it upwards, so the final result is a triangle on your forehead. 
Hear me! King of Infinite Space! Planetmover! The Foundation of Fastness! Ruler of Earthquakes! The Vanquisher of Terror! The Creator of Panic! Destroyer! The Shining Victor! Son of Chaos and the Void! The Guardian of the Abyss! God of the Outermost Darkness! Lord of Dimensions! Riddle-knower! Guardian of The Secrets! Lord of the Labyrinth! Master of the Angles! God of the Whiporwills! Omegapoint! Lord of the Gate! Opener of the Way! The Oldest! All-in-One! The One by Life Prolonged! Umr At-Tawil! Iak-Sathath! YOG-SOTHOTH NAFL'FTHAGN!!! Your servant call upon you! 
Take the staff and turn it first so it points Right-Left, then Up-Down, then Forward-Back. Then twist it, and visualize how it is turned to point into the fourth dimension, perpendicular to the other directions. It will show the eightrayed star of Chaos.
Opening of the Gate:
The staff is held horizontally. 
Yog-Sothoth knows the Gate. Yog-Sothoth is the Gate. Yog-Sothoth is the key and guardian of the Gate. Past, Present and Future, all is one in Yog-Sothoth. 
By that which is not to be named, By Azathoth, By Nyarlathotep, By Shub-Niggurath, By the two snakes, By that which created the Voids, By Kadath in the Cold Waste, By the Plateu of Leng, By Yuggoth, By the moon-lens, By the inprisoned, By the free, By Samas, Gibil and Nusuku, By the High Name of Ea, By the Seven Demons, Guardian, let the Gate be opened! 
By Chaos, By the Void, By the Light, By the Darkness, By the Air, By the Fire, By the Water, By the Earth, Key, open the Gate! 
By my sacred oath, Let those who want to leave come out! Let those who want to enter come in! Let us see intp the Hiding Light! Let us see into the Blinding Darkness! Rend the Veil! Crush the Mirror! Reveal the Illusion! See, the Gate opens! 
slowly turn the staff from horizontal to vertical, and make the sign of the Rending of the Veil. 
See, the Nodes are filled with Power! See, the Lines are filled with Power! See, the Angles twist and open!
